TOWN CODE
OF
VICI
OKLAHOMA
2019
Code current through:
Res. 5-1, passed 5-1-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Vici, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including resolution 5-1, passed May 1, 2023. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     Sterling Codifiers
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. R1-2019
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF VICI,
OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN,
EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE; PROVIDING FOR
SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF VICI, OKLAHOMA:
Section 1 Title.
A code and revision of the ordinances of the Town of Vici is hereby adopted as
the "Code Of Ordinances, Town Of Vici, Oklahoma," or by any other properly
identifying designation.
Section 2 Code Supersedes Other Ordinances.
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
compilation of ordinances of the town which shall supersede all other general
and permanent ordinances enacted by the council prior to May 6th, 2019.
However, all provisions which are incorporated by reference are expressly saved
from repeal and shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 3 Effective Date of Code, Repeal.
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before May 6th, 2019, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 4 Ordinances Not Repealed.
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or act
committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the town or any evidence of the town's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the town; nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the town council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any right or
franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the town council to any
person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, vacating,
etc., any street or public way in the town; nor shall the repeal affect any
annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the town; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance extending
the limits of the town; nor shall the repeal be construed to revive any
ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by this ordinance. The continuance in effect of temporary or
special ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code,
shall not be affected by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code
shall not repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
Section 5 Code Not New Enactment.
The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 6 Ordinances Adopted After Effective Date Of Code.
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted either:
      1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
      2.   Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made
in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance
of the council, as provided hereinafter.
Section 7 Supplements To Code.
Any modification or supplement to the code of ordinances shall be updated
electronically and/or printed as authorized by the town council. A change to
the code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during
the period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. All
changes shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and,
where necessary, replace provisions which have become obsolete or partially
obsolete, and new provisions shall be so prepared that, when they have been
inserted, the code will be sequentially numbered and updated as required. The
town clerk shall be responsible for updating all official copies of the code
maintained by the town and placed in the Dewey County law library as required
by state statute.
Section 8 Preparation Of Code.
The code of ordinances hereby approved by the council of the Town Board of
Trustees and are adopted in compliance with sections 14-109 et seq. of title 11
of the Oklahoma Statutes.
Section 9 Emergency.
Reference being made to "section 3" hereinbefore set out, it is immediately
necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of the town and
the inhabitants thereof that the provisions of this code not heretofore enacted
be put into full force and effect. An emergency is hereby declared to exist, by
reason whereof this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, as provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of May, 2019, by the mayor and Board of
trustees for the Town of Vici, Oklahoma.
Mayor  /s/       
ATTEST:  /s/       
City Clerk  /s/   
 
(SEAL)
Approved:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
VICI TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Town Code of Vici. This Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the VICI TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the Town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2019 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2019 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   All provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the Town now in
effect or adopted in the future are hereby extended to all real property
belonging to, or under the control of, the Town outside the corporate limits of
the Town, and shall be in full force and effect thereon insofar as they are
applicable. All ordinances of the Town which shall go into effect in the future
shall also apply to and be in full effect within the boundaries of all outlying
real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   B.   Any words in any such provision indicating that its effect is limited
to the corporate limits of the Town shall be deemed to mean and include also
such outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the Town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (2008 Code § 1-110; amd. 2019
Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the Town and shall be returned to the Office of the Town
Clerk when directed so to do by order of the Town Board of Trustees. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
Town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the Town or any evidence of
the Town's indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for Town officers and employees.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or renaming, opening, dedicating, or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; ordinances relating to the
grade or alignment of specific streets.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Bond ordinances.
      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the Town.
      11.   Any temporary or special ordinance.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein. (2019 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance. (2019 Code)
   C.   Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances:
      1.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
      2.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or
penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under
the ordinance repealed. (2008 Code § 1-104)
   D.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2019 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
   B.   Further, if any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of
this Code shall seem invalid through printing or typographical error, such
error or misprint shall not serve to misconstrue or invalidate the intent
thereof, nor affect in any way the intent or validity of any or all other
words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Town Board of Trustees may be
fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to Town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers, unless it is otherwise declared.
   F.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive and discretionary; the word
"shall" is mandatory.
   G.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the Town of Vici".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future, past
and present where applicable unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR TOWN BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Town of Vici,
Oklahoma.
CODE: The Town Code of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma.
COUNTY: Dewey County, Oklahoma.
LAW: Includes applicable Federal law, provisions of the Constitution and
Statutes of the State of Oklahoma, and ordinances of the Town, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons, and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
STATE: The State of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to Statutes of the State of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended.
TOWN: The Town of Vici, County of Dewey, State of Oklahoma. (2019 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Except as otherwise provided by State law, whenever in
this Code or in any ordinance of the Town an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this
Code or an ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor,
the violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2008 Code § 1-108; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Aiding Or Abetting: Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the
violation of any provision of this Code or any other ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in
this section. (2008 Code § 1-108)
   C.   Bail Bonds: The Municipal Bail Bond Schedule is defined and described
within the appendix attached to this chapter.
   D.   Court Costs: Court costs of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) shall be
collected on all cases except seat belt violations, and other violations
prohibited by State law. (Res. 6-21, 6-7-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-111 and 27-104.
1-4-2: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (2008 Code § 1-
109)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2019 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Town Map Designated As Official Map
1-5-1: TOWN MAP DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the Town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the Town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the Town. (2008 Code §
1-201; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Manner Of Conducting Town Elections
1-6-1: MANNER OF CONDUCTING TOWN ELECTIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-302, the Town hereby
declares that it shall not be governed by the Oklahoma Town Meeting Act as a
means of electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum
questions.
   B.   The Town hereby declares that it elects its officers and decides
initiative and referendum questions through elections conducted by the County
Election Board pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-101 et seq. (2008
Code § 2-106)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: General Powers Of Town
1-7-2: Composition; Terms Of Office
1-7-3: Meetings Of Town Board
1-7-4: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-7-5: Supervisory Duties Of Trustees
1-7-6: Election And Duties Of Mayor
1-7-1: GENERAL POWERS OF TOWN:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-101, the
Town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted, or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory
Town Board of Trustees form of government. These powers shall be exercised as
provided by law applicable to towns under the Board of Trustees form of
government, or, if the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the
Board of Trustees may prescribe.
   B.   The powers, rights and authorities of the Town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees. (2008 Code § 2-101)
1-7-2: COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Membership; Election At Large: The Board of Trustees shall consist of
five (5) members who shall be nominated and elected at large without regard to
their place of residence within the corporate limits of the Town.
   B.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   The term of office for a Trustee shall be four (4) years beginning
at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday following the general
Municipal election. The Trustee shall serve until his successor is elected and
qualified. The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
Municipal election, the following Trustees are elected for four (4) year terms:
         a.   Trustees one, three, and five; and
         b.   Treasurer.
      2.   At the next general Municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four (4) year terms:
         a.   Trustees two and four; and
         b.   Clerk.
   C.   Resolution Calling For Election: The resolution of the Board of
Trustees calling for a general or special election to fill the Office of
Trustee shall state the number of four (4) year terms and the number of
unexpired terms, if any, to be filled. The resolution shall direct that the
ballot shall state the number of Offices of Trustee to be filled for each term
and that the voters shall vote for the number to be filled. Candidates for the
Office of Trustee shall file for a specific term, which shall be designated on
the declaration of candidacy. Candidates receiving the largest pluralities for
each designated term shall be elected. (2008 Code § 2-102)
1-7-3: MEETINGS OF TOWN BOARD:
   A.   Times For Holding Meetings; Quorum:
      1.   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly, on the first Monday of
each month at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M., and at such other times as it may
prescribe by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise, at the Town Hall.
      2.   Where the day for a meeting falls upon a day which is a legal
holiday in the State, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding day
which is not a holiday.
      3.   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three (3)
Trustees.
      4.   A majority of all the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day.
   B.   Place For Holding Meetings: Every meeting of the Board of Trustees
shall be held in the Town Hall unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor
designates another place in the Town for the holding of a special meeting. Any
adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within the Town designated by
the Board. (2008 Code § 2-103)
1-7-4: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Determine Rules; Compel Attendance:
      1.   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance
of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
      2.   Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half (1/2) of all
meetings of the Board, regular and special, held within any period of four (4)
consecutive months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   B.   Order Of Business: The order of business for each meeting of the Board
may be as follows:
      1.   Call to order;
      2.   Determination of a quorum;
      3.   Reading and approval of the minutes;
      4.   Purchase orders for approval;
      5.   Old business;
      6.   New business;
      7.   Business from the floor; and
      8.   Adjournment.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The following rules of procedure shall apply to any
regular or special meeting of the Board unless three (3) Trustees agree to
waive the rule or rules:
      1.   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing;
      2.   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall not
be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority;
      3.   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded by another
Board member and stated by the Mayor. It is then and not until then in
possession of the Board and cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the Board;
      4.   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         a.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         b.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         c.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         d.   While a vote is being taken.
A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the meeting is
adjourned;
      5.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   For the previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a day certain;
         e.   To commit;
         f.   To amend; or
         g.   To postpone indefinitely, which several motions shall have
precedence in the order they stand arranged;
      6.   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      7.   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      8.   On an amendment's being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      9.   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put; and
      10.   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by the
presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated unless
under motion for reconsideration. (2008 Code § 2-104)
1-7-5: SUPERVISORY DUTIES OF TRUSTEES:
The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a committee
of its members to have supervision of various personnel and activities of the
Town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give each such Trustee
or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such Trustee or committee so
designated shall be subordinate to the Board. (2008 Code § 2-105)
1-7-6: ELECTION AND DUTIES OF MAYOR:
   A.   Election From Board Members; Term: The Board of Trustees shall elect
from among its members a Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered
year at the first Board of Trustees meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or
as soon thereafter as practicable. The Mayor shall serve until his successor
has been elected and qualified.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and
shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions
passed by it. He shall be recognized as head of the Town government for all
ceremonial purposes and shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as
may be prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers,
rights, duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote
on questions.
   C.   Absence Of Mayor; Acting Mayor: During the absence, disability or
suspension of the Mayor, the Board shall elect from among its members an Acting
Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in the Office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect
another Mayor from among its members to serve for the duration of the unexpired
term. (2008 Code § 2-201)
CHAPTER 8
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointments And Removals
1-8-2: Bonds Of Officers
1-8-3: Oath Of Office
1-8-4: Salaries And Compensation
1-8-5: Officers Continue Until Successors Elected And Qualify
1-8-6: Appointment Of Personnel In Emergencies
1-8-7: Social Security
1-8-1: APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Board Authority: The Board of Trustees may appoint such officers and
employees as it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion
or resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel
for the good of the service. (2008 Code § 2-305; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Right To Appeal; Hearing: An employee or officer who, after a
probationary period as set by the Town Board, is laid off, suspended without
pay for more than ten (10) days, demoted or removed may appeal in writing to
the Town Board. The appeal must be filed with the Town Clerk for transmittal to
the Board within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of the layoff,
suspension, demotion or removal. As soon as practicable thereafter, the Board
shall conduct a hearing on the appeal, or give an adequate opportunity
therefor, and shall report in writing its findings and recommendations and make
its final decision in writing regarding the appellant's layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal. If the Board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion
or removal was made for any reason other than the good of the service, it shall
veto the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal and order the reinstatement of
the employee or officer. Any proceedings of the Board shall be subject to Open
Meeting Laws and applicable exceptions provided for executive sessions.
Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid off, suspended without
pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written statement, hearings and
procedures required in this subsection. (2008 Code § 2-305)
1-8-2: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
The Board shall require the Town Treasurer and any other officers and employees
as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give bond for the faithful
performance of duties in such amount and form as the Board shall prescribe. The
Town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The Town may require the officer to
secure the bond within ten (10) days after his election or appointment. (2008
Code § 2-306)
1-8-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   All officers of the Town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the State Constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   B.   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by State law. (2008 Code § 2-310)
1-8-4: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Elective Officers: The compensation of all elective Town officers,
including the following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      Mayor;
      Each Trustee;
      Town Clerk; and
      Town Treasurer. (2008 Code § 2-307)
   B.   Employees, Number And Classes:
      1.   The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting
those whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be
determined by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, and may be
changed at any time in the same manner.
      2.   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees. (2008
Code § 2-308)
   C.   Salaries Of Certain Officers Not Changed: In no case shall the salary
or emoluments of any Town officer elected or appointed for a definite term, be
changed after his election or appointment or during his term of office unless
by operation of an ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such
being prohibited by the Constitution, article 23, section 10. This provision
shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees. (2008
Code § 2-309)
1-8-5: OFFICERS CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ELECTED AND QUALIFY:
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue to
serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed and qualifies,
unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation, disqualification,
removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal manner. (2008 Code § 2-
311)
1-8-6: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES:
   A.   The Mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers
and employees as he may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Town during the existence of the emergency,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a special meeting
or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor.
   B.   The Board of Trustees may determine the compensation of such emergency
employees by motion or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff or
removal of such personnel at the conclusion of such emergency.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, the term "emergency" shall be defined
to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event affecting
the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the Town. (2008 Code § 2-312)
1-8-7: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the Town to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the Town the benefits of the system of Federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and all
amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance
of this policy, the officers and employees of the Town shall take such action
as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (2008
Code § 2-401)
   B.   Execution Of Agreement With State Agency: The Mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the Public
Welfare Commission to accomplish the provisions of subsection A of this
section. (2008 Code § 2-402; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable State and Federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
State or Federal agency designated by the laws and regulations. (2008 Code § 2-
403)
   D.   Contributions: Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated State or
Federal agency in accordance with applicable State or Federal laws or
regulations. (2008 Code § 2-404)
   E.   Records And Reports: The Town shall keep such records and submit such
reports as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations.
(2008 Code § 2-405)
   F.   Exclusions: Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
social security benefits to Town officers and employees are the following:
      1.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
Town; or
      2.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable State or
Federal laws or regulations. (2008 Code § 2-406)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Town Clerk
1-9-2: Town Treasurer
1-9-3: Town Attorney
1-9-4: Health Officer
1-9-5: Town Manager
1-9-1: TOWN CLERK:
   A.   Election; Term: The Town Clerk is an elected official of the Town,
elected for a four (4) year term.
   B.   Duties: The Town Clerk shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
      2.   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the Town Seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the Seal of the Town to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance or by the Board. (2008 Code § 2-301)
1-9-2: TOWN TREASURER:
   A.   Election; Term: The Town Treasurer is an elected official of the Town,
elected for a four (4) year term. (2008 Code § 2-302)
   B.   Duties: The Town Treasurer shall:
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been
paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the Town in depositories as the
Board may designate; (Ord. 258, 9-2-2003)
      3.   Attend each regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees of
the Town;
      4.   Perform such other duties as requested by the Board, including
performing work requested by the Board on a daily basis in the operations of
the Municipal offices of the Town, with the number of hours per month of such
employment to be determined by motion by the Board and periodically reviewed by
said Board;
      5.   Have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance. (Ord. 266, 7-2-2007)
   C.   Examination Of Books And Accounts: The Treasurer's books and accounts
shall at all times be subject to examination by the Board. (Ord. 258, 9-2-2003)
1-9-3: TOWN ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may
secure the services of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when
needed.
   B.   Duties: The Town Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal
adviser of the Board, all officers, departments and agencies of the Town
government in matters relating to their official powers and duties. He shall
represent the Town in proceedings in the courts. He shall perform all services
incident to his position which may be required by law or ordinance. (2008 Code
§ 2-303)
1-9-4: HEALTH OFFICER:
The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The County Health
Officer or any qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer. (2008 Code § 2-304)
1-9-5: TOWN MANAGER:
   A.   Appointment, Pay, Term, Qualifications, Removal: There shall be a Town
Manager. The Board shall appoint him/her for an indefinite term and establish
compensation at the time of hiring, by a vote of a majority of all its members.
The candidate shall be chosen on the basis of his/her executive and
administrative qualifications. At the time of his/her appointment, he/she need
not be a resident of the Town or State; but, during his/her tenure of office,
he/she shall reside within the Town. The Board may suspend or remove the Town
Manager at any time by a vote of a majority of all its members.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Town manager shall be an administrative officer
of the Town and head of the administrative branch of the Town government. He/
She shall execute the laws and ordinances passed by the Board and administer
the government of the Town as proscribed by the Board. He/She shall:
      1.   Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
departments, agencies, officers, and employees;
      2.   Prepare a budget annually, in conjunction with the Town Treasurer
and submit it to the Board, be responsible for the administration of the budget
after it goes into effect, and recommend to the Board any changes in the budget
which he deems desirable
      3.   Submit to the Board a report as of the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the Town for the preceding year;
      4.   Keep the Board advised of the financial condition and future needs
of the Town, and make such recommendations to the Board on matters of policy
and other matters as may seem to him/her desirable;
      5.   Have such other powers, duties, and functions as the Board may
prescribe.
   C.   Dual Office Holding: The position of Town Manager may be occupied by an
individual who also occupies another position or office within the municipal
government, provided that no Board Member may simultaneously occupy the
position of Town Manger and Trustee. The dual office holding authorization
shall extend to and include, but not be limited to, the positions of Town Clerk
and Town Treasurer. (Ord. 285, 10-5-2020)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Scope; Effective Date
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Municipal Judge
1-10-4: Clerk Of The Court; Duties, Bond
1-10-5: Trials And Judgments
1-10-6: Orders Of No Imprisonment Or Maximum Fine
1-10-7: Failure To Appear
1-10-8: Witness Fees
1-10-9: Defendant To Pay Costs If Convicted
1-10-10: Working Prisoners
1-10-1: SCOPE; EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal Court
of the Town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on January 21,
1969, and filed in accordance with law. To the extent of conflict between any
provision of this chapter and the provision of any other ordinance of the Town,
the provision of this chapter shall control. Such court shall be operative on
and after February 12, 1969. (2019 Code)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CLERK: The Town Clerk or other employee of the Town as shall be designated by
the Town Clerk to act as Clerk of the Municipal Court.
COURT: The Municipal Court of the Town.
JUDGE: The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge thereof, so
provided for by the Statutes of this State and this chapter. (2019 Code)
1-10-3: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications; Term:
      1.   There shall be one Judge of the Municipal Court. A Judge must be
duly licensed to practice law in the State. He may engage in the practice of
law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein, or which
might become the subject of proceedings therein. He must be a resident of the
Town. He may serve as Judge of other Municipal courts, if such service may be
accomplished consistently with his duties as Judge of this court, with the
consent of the Town Board.
      2.   The official term of the Judge shall be two (2) years, expiring on
February 12 in each odd numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for
proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.
   B.   Appointment: The Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the Town Board.
   C.   Vacancies:
      1.   A vacancy in the Office of the Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies.
         b.   Resigns.
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of Judge, the Town
Manager shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term.
   D.   Compensation: The salary of the Judge shall be established upon
recommendation of the Mayor to, and approval of, the Town Board to be paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the Town.
   E.   Removal: Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the Town
Board, for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this State for
the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the Mayor or twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of the Town.
In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the
petitions. The Town Board shall set a date for hearing the matter, and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to representation by counsel, to present
testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him, and to have all
evidence against him presented in open hearing. So far as they can be made
applicable, the provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act governing
individual proceedings shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgement of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the Town Board, in favor of such removal. (2019 Code)
1-10-4: CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES, BOND:
   A.   Disposition Of Funds: The Town Clerk as Clerk of the Municipal Court
shall pay to the Treasurer, on the first and the fifteenth day of each month,
all monies so received by him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be
received to be disbursed by him for special purposes. All monies paid to the
Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund, or in such other fund as the
Town Board may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the Municipal
government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in
which it is placed.
   B.   Surety Bond: The Clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form
provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). When executed, such bond shall be submitted to the Town
Board for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk and
retained in the Municipal archives. (2019 Code)
1-10-5: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences in the Municipal Court, either
party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant in any action in the Municipal
Court must be present in person at the trial.
   C.   Trial Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
chapter, or by the statutes relating to Municipal Criminal Courts, or by rules
duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   D.   Judgment Rendered: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   E.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (2019 Code)
1-10-6: ORDERS OF NO IMPRISONMENT OR MAXIMUM FINE:
   A.   Entering Of Order: Prior to the trial of a case, the Judge may enter an
order with respect to such case providing for one or both of the following:
      1.   The defendant will not be imprisoned if he is convicted.
      2.   A maximum fine that can be assessed if the defendant is convicted.
   B.   Sentencing: If such an order is entered, sentencing must be in
accordance with such order.
   C.   Right To Order Imprisonment: This section does not restrict the right
of the Judge to order imprisonment of a financially able person for failure to
pay a fine. (2019 Code)
1-10-7: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Failure To Appear Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate his written promise to appear in Municipal Court given to an officer
upon the issuance of a notice to appear, regardless of the disposition of the
charge for which such notice to appear was originally issued. It is unlawful
for any person to fail to appear in court in response to a summons served upon
him.
   B.   Appearance By Counsel: A summons or written promise to appear in
Municipal Court may be complied with by an appearance by counsel. (2019 Code)
1-10-8: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Fees Allowed: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than
police officers, shall be entitled to the fees established by ordinance.
However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the
same period of time or the same travel.
   B.   Subpoena; Deposit; Exception For Indigents:
      1.   Deposit Required: A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the Clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day
of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
      2.   Indigents:
         a.   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
            (1)   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses.
            (2)   That the defendant, by reason of poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law.
            (3)   That the testimony of such witnesses is material.
            (4)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his
proper defense.
         b.   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the Town. (2019 Code)
1-10-9: DEFENDANT TO PAY COSTS IF CONVICTED:
Upon the entry of judgment, the Clerk of the court shall tax the costs to the
defendant in a sum not exceeding the amount established by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 27-126, plus any fees assessed by the court, all of which the defendant
shall pay, in addition to any fine that may be imposed. (2019 Code)
1-10-10: WORKING PRISONERS:
   A.   Credit For Work: All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on
plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public
streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving
two (2) days of imprisonment under his sentence.
   B.   Supervision Of Work: The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of
the Town Manager, shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of
the department in charge of the place where the work is to be performed,
himself or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard
is necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor. (2019 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created; Membership
2-1-2: Organization; Meetings
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Act As Zoning Commission
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Creation: A Town Planning Commission may be created for the Town.
   B.   Appointment; Terms: The Planning Commission shall consist of five (5)
appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the Town, and the
Chairman of the Town Board of Trustees and the Town Engineer (if any) as ex
officio members. The appointive members shall be nominated by the Mayor and
appointed by the Board of Trustees and shall serve for terms of three (3)
years. Of the original appointive members, one shall serve for a term of one
year; two (2) shall serve for a term of two (2) years; and two (2) shall serve
for a term of three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancies; Removals:
      1.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms.
      2.   The Town Board of Trustees may remove members of the Town Planning
Commission for cause.
   D.   Compensation: The members shall serve without compensation. (2008 Code
§ 12-101)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers: The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chairman, a Vice
Chairman, and Secretary, who shall serve until the first Monday of the next May
after their election. The Secretary need not be a member of the commission.
   B.   Meetings: The commission shall determine the time and place of its
regular meetings; and the Chairman or any three (3) members may call special
meetings of the commission.
   C.   Employees; Salaries: The commission may employ engineers, attorneys,
clerks, and other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the Town
Board of Trustees. Their salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Board,
and shall be paid out of the Town Treasury as other salaries and compensation
are paid. The necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the Town Treasury
as other legal expenses of the Town government are paid. (2008 Code § 12-102)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Town Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
for it by State law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter prescribed
for it by any other provision of ordinance or law. (2008 Code § 12-103)
2-1-4: ACT AS ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Appointed As Zoning Commission: The Town Planning Commission is hereby
appointed the Zoning Commission of the Town, and the Town Planning Commission
shall have the powers of a Zoning Commission as provided by State law. Whether
exercising the powers of a Planning Commission or the powers of a Zoning
Commission, it shall be legally one board known as the Town Planning
Commission.
   B.   Powers As Zoning Commission: Exercising the powers of a Zoning
Commission, the Town Planning Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the
various zones and appropriate zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It
shall have all the powers conferred upon a Zoning Commission by State law and
all powers which now or in the future may be granted by applicable State law to
such authorities. (2008 Code § 12-104)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE AND PURCHASING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Depositories Designated; Deposit Of Funds
3-1-2: Funds Secured
3-1-3: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
3-1-4: Purchasing Authorization
3-1-5: Competitive Bidding
3-1-6: Purchases When Bidding Not Required
3-1-7: Disposition Of Surplus Or Obsolete Materials; Bidding
3-1-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
All banks and all savings and loan associations in the Town which are
incorporated under Federal or State law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the Town. The Town Treasurer shall deposit daily all public
funds received by him in such banks or savings and loan associations. (2008
Code § 7-101)
3-1-2: FUNDS SECURED:
The deposits of the Town shall be secured pursuant to the Security for Local
Public Deposits Act, 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 517.1 et seq. (2008 Code § 7-
102)
3-1-3: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, means services
performed for the Town by persons not in the employment of the Town, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with the services under express or implied contract. Contractual services shall
include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone; telegraph;
utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and maintenance
of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical facilities of
the Town; and other services performed for the Town by persons not in the
employment of the Town. (2008 Code § 7-103)
3-1-4: PURCHASING AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services for the offices, departments and agencies of the Town government shall
be made by the Town Board of Trustees or by other Town personnel in accordance
with purchase authorizations issued by the Town Board of Trustees. (2008 Code §
7-104)
   B.   Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00) shall require the prior approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code § 7-105; amd. 2019 Code)
3-1-5: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
   A.   Invitation To Bid: Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services are made, as otherwise provided
below, the Town purchasing authority shall submit to at least three (3)
persons, firms or corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a
smaller number if there are not three (3) dealing in and able to supply the
same, a request for quotation, or invitation to bid, and specifications, to
give them opportunity to bid; and/or publish notice of the proposed purchase in
a newspaper of general circulation within the Town.
   B.   Considerations By Purchasing Authority: The Town purchasing authority
shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the Town when this can be done
without additional cost to the Town; but he shall submit requests for quotation
to those outside the Town when this may be necessary to secure bids or to
create competitive conditions, or when he thinks that by so doing he can make a
saving for the Town; and shall purchase from them when he can make a saving for
the Town.
   C.   Opening Of Sealed Bids; Final Determination: All bids shall be sealed
and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place. The purchasing
authority may repeatedly reject all bids, and again may submit to the same or
other persons, firms or corporations the request for quotation, or invitation
to bid, and/or again publish notice of the proposed purchase. He may purchase
from the bidder whose bid is most advantageous to the Town, considering price,
quality, date of delivery and so on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from
one of those tying, or may divide the purchase among those tying, always
accepting the bid or bids most advantageous to the Town. (2008 Code § 7-106)
3-1-6: PURCHASING WHEN BIDDING NOT REQUIRED:
The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding: (2008 Code § 7-107)
   A.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost does
not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in a single
transaction; (2008 Code § 7-107; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   C.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including government surplus;
   D.   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
   E.   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
   F.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when purchased
at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State Purchasing Agency or
any other State agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the State, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   G.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, legal and medical services unless competitive bidding is
required by applicable law or regulations, such as certain Federal grants
programs. (2008 Code § 7-107)
3-1-7: DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE MATERIALS; BIDDING:
   A.   Determination And Sales Procedure:
      1.   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value
of more than seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) may be sold until
the Town Board of Trustees has declared them obsolete or surplus. (2008 Code §
7-108; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Before the Town Board of Trustees sells any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided below, they
shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town
or give notice in such other manner as the Board of Trustees deems necessary
adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make bids.
      3.   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The Town Board
of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again.
      4.   The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials or
equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash.
      5.   In case of a tie, the Board of Trustees may sell to either of the
bidders tying, or may divide the sale among two (2) or more tying, always
selling to the highest responsible bidder or bidders for cash. (2008 Code § 7-
108)
   B.   Sales When Competitive Bidding Not Required: The Town Board of Trustees
may sell the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
(2008 Code § 7-109)
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in a
single transaction; and (2008 Code § 7-109; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the Town for the same. (2008 Code § 7-109)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-2-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-2-5: Taxes Enumerated; Effective Date; Purpose Of Revenues
3-2-6: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
3-2-7: Exemptions From Tax
3-2-8: Due Date
3-2-9: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-2-10: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-2-11: Collection By Vendors
3-2-12: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-2-13: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-2-14: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-2-15: Fraudulent Returns
3-2-16: Records Confidential
3-2-17: Amendments
3-2-18: Provisions Cumulative
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF VICI SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2008 Code § 7-201)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Generally: The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2008 Code § 7-202)
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "tax collector", as used in this
chapter, means the department of the Town or the official agency of the State
duly designated according to law or contract, and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this chapter. (2008 Code § 7-
203)
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code. (2008 Code § 7-204)
3-2-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional Town permit for the same purpose. (2008 Code § 7-205)
3-2-5: TAXES ENUMERATED; EFFECTIVE DATE; PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   A.   Original Taxes Enumerated:
      1.   Ordinance 202 levied the first one cent ($0.01) tax, effective
November, 1971.
      2.   Ordinance 220 levied a tax of two (2) additional cents, effective
July 27, 1982, amended by ordinance 228, adopted April 11, 1985.
      3.   Ordinance 230, adopted August 4, 1988, effective December 1, 1988,
increased the tax to three percent (3%). (2008 Code § 7-201)
   B.   Additional One Percent Sales Tax:
      1.   Tax Levied: Beginning on July 1, 2015, and continuing thereafter
until lawfully repealed, there is hereby declared and shall be levied and
collected, an additional Town Sales (Excise) Tax of one percent (1%), such
Sales (Excise) Tax being in addition to the Town and State Sales (Excise) Taxes
heretofore levied or assessed, upon the gross proceeds or receipts derived from
all sales to any person taxable under the Sales (Excise) Tax laws for the State
of Oklahoma.
      2.   Deposit: The receipts from such additional Sales (Excise) Tax shall
be initially deposited into a limited purpose fund to be known as the "Vici
Nursing Home Operations Fund" (hereinafter the "fund"), to be held in the name
of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, and thereafter accumulated, earmarked, used and
expended by the Town of Vici Nursing Home only for the purposes set out in
subsection B3 of this section.
      3.   Purpose Of Revenue:
         a.   It is the purpose of the one percent (1%) Municipal Sales
(Excise) Tax levied hereunder to financially support the operations and
functions of the Town of Vici Nursing Home, in order to continue to maintain,
improve and promote the Town, and thereby promote the continuing economic
development of and nursing care services for the Town.
         b.   Specifically, said one cent ($0.01) of additional Municipal Sales
(Excise) Tax shall be utilized and expended for the following purposes, and in
the manner hereinafter provided.
         c.   The fund shall be a special, limited purpose fund, established
within the general budget of the Town, and shall be used solely for the purpose
of receiving the revenues derived from collection of the additional one percent
(1%) Sales (Excise) Tax imposed hereunder, receiving income from the investment
of said monies contained in the fund, thereafter accumulated, earmarked, used
and expended, both principal and interest, by the Town, to financially promote
and support the operations and functions of the Town of Vici Nursing Home.
(Ord. 271, 2-2-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
   C.   Effective Date Of Chapter: This chapter became effective as to each
cent tax after approval of a majority of the registered voters of the Town
voting on the ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 16-112. (2008 Code § 7-206)
   D.   Purpose Of Revenues Generally: It is the purpose of the Sales Tax to
provide revenues for the support of the functions of the Municipal government
of the Town. (2008 Code § 7-207)
3-2-6: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of four percent (4%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code. (2008 Code § 7-208; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Exemptions from the Sales Tax levied in this chapter shall include all those
allowed under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. (2008 Code § 7-209; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-8: DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State Sales Tax under the Oklahoma Sales
Tax Code. (2008 Code § 7-215)
3-2-9: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of State Sales Tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the Town Sales Tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
Town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the Town Sales Tax and
the State Sales Tax. (2008 Code § 7-216)
3-2-10: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2008 Code
§ 7-217)
3-2-11: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in the Town to collect from the
consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the Town. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 7-218)
3-2-12: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code for
collection of State Sales Taxes. (2008 Code § 7-219)
3-2-13: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquencies:
      1.   68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter.
      2.   Interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter.
      3.   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter
shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
      4.   In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this
chapter. (2008 Code § 7-220)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the Town tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the
waiver or as applied in administration of the State Sales Tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. (2008 Code § 7-221)
3-2-14: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the Town Sales Tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the State
Sales Tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2008 Code § 7-
222)
3-2-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 7-223)
3-2-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the Town Sales Tax is legislatively recognized and declared
and, to protect the same, the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code, 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
Town Sales Tax as if here set forth in full. (2008 Code § 7-224)
3-2-17: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the Town, by their approval of the Sales Tax ordinance(s), hereby
authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance(s) duly enacted, to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the Town as provided by law. (2008 Code § 7-225)
3-2-18: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of Town ordinances. (2008 Code § 7-226)
CHAPTER 3
USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Tax Levied; Transactions Subject To Tax
3-3-4: Purpose Of Revenues
3-3-5: Exemptions
3-3-6: Due Date
3-3-7: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-3-8: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
3-3-9: Revocation Of Permit
3-3-10: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Of Other States
3-3-11: Delinquencies, Interest And Penalties
3-3-12: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-3-13: Fraudulent Returns
3-3-14: Records Confidential
3-3-15: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3-16: Subsisting State Permits
3-3-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN USE TAX. (2008 Code §
7-401)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the Town government or the official agency of
the State, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (2008 Code § 7-402)
3-3-3: TAX LEVIED; TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the Town tangible personal property
purchased or brought into this Town, an Excise Tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the Town of such property at the rate of four percent (4%) of
the purchase price of such property. (2008 Code § 7-403; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise
consuming, within the Town, tangible personal property purchased or brought
into the Town. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the Town and shall be assessed to
only property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein
shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended solely for use
outside the Town, but which is stored in the Town pending shipment outside the
Town or which is temporarily retained in the Town for the purpose of
fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service.
   C.   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or Municipal Sales Tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the Town had been levied on the
sale of such goods or services. (2008 Code § 7-403)
3-3-4: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the Municipal government of the Town, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the Governing Body of the
Town for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(2008 Code § 7-404)
3-3-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from such tax as levied by this chapter shall be allowed pursuant to
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1404. (2008 Code § 7-405; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3-6: DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax under the Use Tax Code of
the State of Oklahoma. (2008 Code § 7-406)
3-3-7: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2008 Code § 7-407)
3-3-8: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   A.   Collection Of Tax: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the State, and making sales of tangible
personal property from a place of business outside this State for use in this
Town shall at the time of making such sales collect the Use Tax levied by this
chapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the
manner and form prescribed by the State Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission
shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list
with the Tax Commission the name and address of all his agents operating in
this Town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices
or other places of business in the Town. (2008 Code § 7-408)
   B.   Vendors Maintaining Place Of Business Within And/Or Outside State: The
State Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this State but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in this Town and by the out of State place of business of any
retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without this
State and making sales of tangible personal property at such out of State place
of business for use in this Town. Such retailer or vendor may be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the Tax Commission in such
manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe.
When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect
the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his knowledge for use
within this Town. Such authority and permit may be canceled when at any time
the Tax Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in this Town. Provided, however, that in
all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within this Town by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or
vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales
or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable Town Sales Tax at
the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer's Sales Tax permit number accordingly. (2008 Code § 7-409)
3-3-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
State, or both within and without this State, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any orders, rules or regulations of the State Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the Use Tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this State may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
State and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission. (2008 Code § 7-410)
3-3-10: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the State Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the Code for the collection of State Use Taxes.
(2008 Code § 7-411)
3-3-11: DELINQUENCIES, INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquencies: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the
amounts as herein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter. (2008 Code
§ 7-412)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the Town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the State
Use Tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish the
purposes of this subsection, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2008 Code § 7-
413)
3-3-12: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the Town Use Tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
State Use Tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2008 Code § 7-414)
3-3-13: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (2008 Code § 7-415)
3-3-14: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the Town Use Tax is legislatively recognized and declared
and, to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
of the State Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the Town
Use Tax as if herein set forth in full. (2008 Code § 7-416)
3-3-15: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
(2008 Code § 7-417)
3-3-16: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are for the purpose of this
chapter hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional Town permit for the same purpose. (2008 Code § 7-418)
3-3-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the Town ordinances. (2008 Code § 7-419)
CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Fee Levied
3-4-2: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees, Taxes
3-4-1: FEE LEVIED:
   A.   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon
each and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange in
the Town in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the Town to compensate the Town for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the Town.
   B.   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the Town on
or before June 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended from the General Revenue Fund of the Town. (2008 Code § 7-301)
3-4-2: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions; charges; excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the Town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the Town. (2008 Code § 7-302)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Fees; Sales Tax Permit
4-1-2: Payment Of Fee; License Issuance; Expiration Date
4-1-3: Separate Licenses Required
4-1-4: Display Of License
4-1-5: Duplicate License
4-1-6: Licenses Nontransferable
4-1-7: Exemption; Ex-Service Persons
4-1-8: Revocation Of License
4-1-9: Penalty
4-1-1: LICENSE FEES; SALES TAX PERMIT:
   A.   Fees Levied: A license fee is hereby levied on every person engaging
in, exercising, or pursuing any of the following businesses, professions,
trades, occupations, or privileges in the Town:
      1.   Show, circus or carnival, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per week; and
      2.   Fruit and/or produce truck, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
(2008 Code § 9-101; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Sales Tax Permit: In order to receive a license under this chapter,
every person, firm or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is
required to possess a valid and current State Sales Tax permit if such person,
firm or corporation is a vendor subject to collection of Sales Taxes under the
Sales Tax Code of the Town and State. A copy of this permit shall be provided
by the applicant for a license to the Town Clerk prior to issuance of the Town
license. (2008 Code § 9-101)
4-1-2: PAYMENT OF FEE; LICENSE ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION DATE:
   A.   Payment Of Fee:
      1.   License Required; License Tax: It is unlawful for any person to
engage in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation, or
privilege for which a License Tax is levied by section
4-1-1 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the License Tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
      2.   Application; License Issuance: Upon making proper application to the
Town Clerk, the payment of the License Tax and fulfillment of any other
condition which may be prescribed by law or ordinance, the Town Clerk shall
issue a license therefor.
      3.   General Fund: Such License Taxes shall be credited to the General
Fund of the Town. (2008 Code § 9-103)
   B.   Term Of License; Proration Of Fee: Annual licenses shall expire on June
30th of the year for which they were issued. When an annual license is issued
after July 1 for the remainder of the year to a person just beginning to engage
in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation, or
privilege, the tax collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal
to the fraction of the year remaining, with a minimum of twenty five dollars
($25.00). (2008 Code § 9-103; amd. 2019 Code)
4-1-3: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the Town, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall pay
the fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege. (2008 Code § 9-104)
4-1-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he has no
particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it.
   B.   In lieu of the manner of displaying such licenses provided in this
chapter, when licenses are required for coin operated music or amusement
devices, vending machines, and similar devices and equipment, the license may
be placed on or attached to such device or equipment in such position and
manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or attached if
the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display
the license as required in this section. (2008 Code § 9-105)
4-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
   A.   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time.
   B.   Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall make, and file with
the Town Clerk an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it
has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the
holder, and that, if believed lost, he has made diligent search for it and has
been unable to find it.
   C.   The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Town Clerk,
shall be set by the Town Board. (2008 Code § 9-108)
4-1-6: LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE:
The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the Town.
(2008 Code § 9-107)
4-1-7: EXEMPTION; EX-SERVICE PERSONS:
Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the Town shall be deemed to
require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in a business, occupation, or privilege when he is exempted therefrom
by Statutes of the State or other provisions of law. (2008 Code § 9-102)
4-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the Town to any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue
any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege may be revoked by the
Board of Trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either of the
following reasons:
   A.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by State law or local
ordinance; or
   B.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances. (2008 Code § 9-
106)
4-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or occupation, or
exercises any privilege for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of any license granted. (2008 Code § 9-110)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Levy And Payment Of Occupation Tax
4-2-3: Application For License; Conditions
4-2-4: Application For Certificate Of Zoning And Code Compliance
4-2-5: State And Town Licenses Required
4-2-6: General Prohibitions
4-2-7: Restrictions Concerning Underage Persons
4-2-8: Transportation In Vehicles; Exception
4-2-9: Location Of Establishments
4-2-10: Package Stores
4-2-11: Hours Of Operation
4-2-12: Sale Or Delivery Prohibited On Certain Days
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABLE COMMISSION OR COMMISSION: Means the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission.
ALCOHOL: Means and includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or
spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does
not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as
denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Means alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
APPLICANT: Means any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any
individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold
any license issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.
BEER: Means any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or
similar products. "Beer" may or may not contain hops or other vegetable
products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as
Japanese rice wine.
BEER DISTRIBUTOR: Means and includes any person licensed to distribute beer for
retail sale in the State, but does not include a holder of a small brewer self-
distribution license or brewpub self-distribution license. The term
"distributor", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to refer to a beer
distributor.
BEER KEG: Means any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not
less than four (4) gallons of beer.
BOTTLE CLUB: Means any establishment in a county which has not authorized the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is required
to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to club
members on club premises.
BRAND: Means any word, name, group of letters, symbol or combination thereof,
that is adopted and used by a licensed manufacturer to identify a specific beer
and to distinguish that product from another beer.
BRAND EXTENSION: Means:
   A.   After the effective date of this chapter, any brand of beer introduced
by a manufacturer in this State which either:
      1. Incorporates all or a substantial part of the unique features of a
preexisting brand of the same licensed manufacturer, or
      2. Relies to a significant extent on the goodwill associated with the
preexisting brand, or
   B.   Any brand of beer that a manufacturer, the majority of whose total
volume of all brands of beer distributed in this State by such manufacturer on
January 1, 2016, was distributed as low-point beer, desires to sell,
introduces, begins selling or theretofore has sold and desires to continue
selling a strong beer in this State which either:
      1. Incorporates or incorporated all or a substantial part of the unique
features of a preexisting low-point beer brand of the same licensed
manufacturer, or
      2. Relies or relied to a significant extent on the goodwill associated
with a preexisting low-point beer brand.
BREWER: Means and includes any person who manufactures for human consumption by
the use of raw materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license fee
and a tax are imposed by any law of this State.
BREWPUB: Means a licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
CIDER: Means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of
fruit juice, including but not limited to flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider. For the purposes of the distribution of this product, cider may be
distributed by either wine and spirits wholesalers or beer distributors.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Means any person primarily engaged in retailing a limited
range of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of
operation, whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in
combination with such sales.
CONVICTED AND CONVICTION: Mean and include a finding of guilt resulting from a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the decision of a court or Magistrate or the
verdict of a jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of judgment or the
suspension thereof.
DIRECTOR: Means the Director of the ABLE Commission.
DISTILLER: Means any person who produces spirits from any source or substance,
or any person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for distillation or
for the production of spirits (except a person making or using such material in
the authorized production of wine or beer, or the production of vinegar by
fermentation), or any person who by any process separates alcoholic spirits
from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or keeping mash, wort
or wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT: Means the written agreement between the distributor and
manufacturer as set forth in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 3-108.
DRUG STORE: Means a person primarily engaged in retailing prescription and
nonprescription drugs and medicines.
DUAL-STRENGTH BEER: Means a brand of beer that, immediately prior to the
effective date of this chapter, was being sold and distributed pursuant to the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
Dual-strength beer does not include a brand of beer that arose as a result of a
brand extension as defined in this section.
FAIR MARKET VALUE: Means the value in the subject territory covered by the
written agreement with the distributor or wholesaler that would be determined
in an arm's length transaction entered into without duress or threat of
termination of the distributor's or wholesaler's rights and shall include all
elements of value, including goodwill and going-concern value.
GOOD CAUSE: Means:
   A.   Failure by the distributor to comply with the material and reasonable
provisions of a written agreement or understanding with the manufacturer, or
   B.   Failure by the distributor to comply with the duty of good faith.
GOOD FAITH: Means the duty of each party to any distributor agreement and all
officers, employees or agents thereof to act with honesty in fact and within
reasonable standards of fair dealing in the trade.
GROCERY STORE: Means a person primarily engaged in retailing a general line of
food, such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh
and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Means an establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations
with respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the
occupants thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of
innkeeper and guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal
relationships as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall
be immaterial.
LEGAL NEWSPAPER: Means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in sections 101 through 114 of title
25 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
LICENSEE: Means any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while
in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business
or on the licensed premises.
MANUFACTURER: Means a brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of any
alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent companies.
MANUFACTURER'S AGENT: Means a salaried or commissioned salesperson who is the
agent authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or nonresident seller in
the State.
MEALS: Means foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least part of
which is cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining
implements for consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as
appetizers, sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered "meals".
MINI-BAR: Means a closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part, or
non-refrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
   A.   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device, or
   B.   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER: Means any beverage, by whatever name designated,
consisting of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or
vegetable flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of alcohol measured by volume but not more
than seven percent (7%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F)
and which is packaged in a container not larger than three hundred seventy five
milliliters (375 mL). Such term shall include but not be limited to the
beverage popularly known as a "wine cooler".
MIXED BEVERAGES: Means one or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or
part of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal
size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or
special event license.
MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Means an establishment which is licensed by 37A
Oklahoma Statutes section 2-110 to sell alcoholic beverages by the individual
drink and where motion pictures are exhibited, and to which the general public
is admitted.
NONRESIDENT SELLER: Means any person licensed pursuant to 37A Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-135.
OCCUPATION: As used in connection with "Occupation Tax" means the sites
occupied as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers, beer
distributors, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, on-premises beer and wine
licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event licensees.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Means any container of alcoholic beverage filled and stamped
or sealed by the manufacturer.
PACKAGE STORE: Means any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell
wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
PATRON: Means any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a licensee
or who is not a licensee.
PERSON: Means an individual, any type of partnership, corporation, association,
limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal structure of
any such business entity.
PREMISES: Means the grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to
the grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect
control of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the
licensee and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered
by a license. Provided that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
   A.   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by private
parties which are closed to the general public, or
   B.   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages provided
by a private party.
This exception shall in no way limit the licensee's concurrent responsibility
for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act occurring on
the licensed premises.
PRIVATE EVENT: Means a social gathering or event attended by invited guests who
share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior established
relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for general public
attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not constitute a
private event.
PUBLIC EVENT: Means any event that can be attended by the general public.
RECTIFIER: Means any person who rectifies, purifies or refines spirits or wines
by any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or original
and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash or other substance, through
continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is complete),
and any person who, without rectifying, purifying or refining spirits, shall by
mixing (except for immediate consumption on the premises where mixed) such
spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufactures any spurious,
imitation or compound liquors for sale, under the name of whiskey, brandy, rum,
gin, wine, spirits, cordials or any other name.
REGULATION OR RULE: Means a formal rule of general application promulgated by
the ABLE Commission as herein required.
RESTAURANT: Means an establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages
by the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is prepared
and sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES: Means an original package of any
capacity approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
RETAIL SALESPERSON: Means a salesperson soliciting orders from and calling upon
retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her product.
RETAILER: Means a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption pursuant to a
retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer license.
SALE: Means any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term "sale" is
also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this State of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this State, upon
which the Excise Tax levied by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has
not been paid or exempted.
SHORT-ORDER FOOD: Means food other than full meals including but not limited to
sandwiches, soups and salads. Provided that popcorn, chips and other similar
snack food shall not be considered "short-order food".
SMALL BREWER: Means a brewer who manufactures less than twenty five thousand
(25,000) barrels of beer annually pursuant to a validly issued small brewer
license hereunder.
SMALL FARM WINE: Means a wine that is produced by a small farm winery with
seventy five percent (75%) or more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries, other
fruits, honey or vegetables.
SMALL FARM WINERY: Means a wine-making establishment that does not annually
produce for sale more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of wine as
reported on the United States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco
Tax and Trade Bureau, Report of Wine Premises Operations (TTB Form 5120.17).
SPARKLING WINE: Means champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
SPECIAL EVENT: Means an entertainment, recreation or marketing event that
occurs at a single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic
beverages are sold.
SPIRITS: Means any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more than
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol measured by volume, and obtained by
distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in solution and
includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs,
cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds, but shall not include any
alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts of Congress and
regulations pursuant thereto.
STRONG BEER: Means beer which, prior to the effective date of this chapter, was
distributed pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
SUCCESSOR MANUFACTURER: Means a primary source of supply, a brewer or an
importer that acquires rights to a beer brand from a predecessor manufacturer.
TAX COMMISSION: Means the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
TERRITORY: Means a geographic region with a specified boundary.
WINE: Means and includes any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty four percent
(24%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the
fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER OR WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR: Means and includes
any sole proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and spirits
in the State. The term "wholesaler", as used in this chapter, shall be
construed to refer to a wine and spirits wholesaler.
Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting
the masculine gender include the feminine, as well as persons and licensees as
defined in this section. (2019 Code)
4-2-2: LEVY AND PAYMENT OF OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Levied: There is hereby levied an annual tax upon the following
occupations hereinafter named, and in the sum set opposite the names of such
occupation:
Brewer license                                                $1,250.00
Small brewer license                                          125.00
Distiller license                                             3,125.00
Winemaker license                                             625.00
Small farm winery license                                     75.00
Rectifier license                                             3,125.00
Wine and spirits wholesaler license                           3,000.00
Beer distributor license                                      750.00
Retail spirits license for cities and towns from 200 to 2,500 305.00
population
Retail wine license                                           1,000.00
Retail beer license                                           500.00
Mixed beverage license:                                        
 Initial license                                             1,005.00
 Renewal                                                     905.00
Mixed beverage/caterer combination license                    1,250.00
On-premises beer and wine license:                             
 Initial license                                             500.00
 Renewal                                                     450.00
Bottle club license:                                           
 Initial license                                             1,000.00
 Renewal                                                     900.00
Caterer license:                                               
 Initial license                                             1,005.00
 Renewal                                                     905.00
Annual special event license                                  55.00
Quarterly special event license                               55.00
Hotel beverage license:                                        
 Initial license                                             1,005.00
 Renewal                                                     905.00
Airline/railroad beverage license:                             
 Initial license                                             1,005.00
 Renewal                                                     905.00
Agent license                                                 55.00
Employee license                                              30.00
Industrial license                                            23.00
Carrier license                                               23.00
Private carrier license                                       23.00
Bonded warehouse license                                      190.00
Storage license                                               23.00
Nonresident seller license or manufacturer's license          750.00
Manufacturer's agent license                                  55.00
Sacramental wine supplier license                             100.00
Charitable auction license                                    1.00
Charitable alcoholic beverage license                         55.00
Winemaker self-distribution license                           750.00
Annual public event license                                   1,005.00
One-time public event license                                 255.00
Small brewer self-distribution license                        750.00
Brewpub license                                               1,005.00
Brewpub self-distribution license                             750.00
 
(2019 Code)
   B.   Brewer And Class B Wholesaler: The Occupation Tax for those service
organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue
Code for bottle club licenses shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
Occupation Tax for a brewer and a Class B wholesaler shall be reduced by
seventy five percent (75%) if the brewer of Class B wholesaler is also the
holder of a license from the State to manufacture or wholesale any malt
beverages as provided in 37 Oklahoma Statutes. (2008 Code § 3-201; amd. 2019
Code)
   C.   Payment In Advance; License Term; Proration: The Occupation Tax levied
herein shall be paid in advance annually, on or before April 1, to the Town
Clerk, who shall issue a receipt therefor. The tax shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
   D.   Issuance Of Receipt; Record Of Licensees: Upon payment of the
Occupation Tax, the Town Clerk shall issue a receipt, signed by the Town Clerk,
to the State licensee paying such Occupational Tax. The Town Clerk shall also
record the name of the licensee and the address where the licensee engages in
his occupation. Such record shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files
of the Town for at least five (5) years. Thereafter, upon resolution by the
Board of Trustees, it may be destroyed.
   E.   Posting Of Receipt On Premises: Any State licensee shall post his tax
receipt in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries on his
occupation.
   F.   Limitation Of Coverage; Nonrefundable: The Occupation Tax shall cover
only the person paying the tax and no other or a successor thereof, and shall
not be refundable.
   G.   Annual Report To State: The Town Clerk shall make and transmit to the
ABLE Commission an annual report showing the number and class of licenses
subject to the tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
   H.   Failure To Pay Tax; Suit For Recovery: All sums due from any person by
reason of Occupation Taxes imposed by this chapter and all penalties accruing
from such person by reason of failure to pay such tax shall be recoverable at
the suit of the Town, brought against such person in any court of competent
jurisdiction. In any suit, in addition to the tax and penalties, the plaintiff
shall recover interest, at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, upon all
sums due by way of tax and penalty from the date of accrual thereof, and all
costs of collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees,
all to be determined by the court. Prosecution for an offense against the Town,
arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by this chapter, regardless of
the outcome thereof or its continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense
or bar in any manner to the collection of the tax and penalties, if any are
due, as herein provided. (2008 Code § 3-102)
4-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Every person desiring to obtain a license as
provided for herein shall make application to the Town Clerk on forms to be
provided setting forth the location of the business, the names of all persons
interested in the business, together with their addresses; if a corporation,
the application shall include the names of the president and managing officer.
   B.   Requirements For Issuance Of License: No licensee shall be issued a
license without satisfactory showing that the applicant has:
      1.   Satisfied the conditions of this chapter;
      2.   Obtained all applicable State and County permits or licenses; and
      3.   Paid the tax as required herein.
   C.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: No license shall be issued or be
valid unless the licensee meets the requirements of the Town zoning ordinances
and regulations. (2008 Code § 3-103)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CODE COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Conditions Of Application: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the Zoning, Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the Town required
by Oklahoma Statutes shall apply at the Office of the Town Clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
   B.   Investigation Of Premises: Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of compliance, the Town Clerk shall cause an investigation to be
made to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply
with the provisions of the zoning ordinance and any Health, Fire, Building or
other Safety Codes applicable to it.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificates:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety and Health Codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   D.   Time Limit For Action; Signature Of Mayor: The Town Board shall act on
such applications within twenty (20) days of receipt thereof. The above
certificates of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor. (2008 Code § 3-104)
4-2-5: STATE AND TOWN LICENSES REQUIRED:
No person shall own, operate or maintain a beer distributorship, bottle club,
brewery, brewpub, winery, retail package store or mixed beverage establishment,
or produce, manufacture, distribute, rectify, bottle or sell any beer, spirits,
wine or other alcoholic beverage without first obtaining valid licenses issued
by the State and the Town. (2019 Code)
4-2-6: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Sale, Possession And Consumption: No person shall:
      1.   Purchase any alcoholic beverage at retail or wholesale from any
person other than a dealer licensed by the ABLE Commission; (2008 Code § 3-108)
      2.   a. Prohibition: Except as otherwise provided by law, any person who
shall, in any public place or building, or upon any public or private road or
alley, or upon any parking or vacant lot, drink or otherwise consume any
intoxicating beverage or liquor of any kind or beer, or, who shall be
intoxicated in any public place or building or public or private road, street
or alley, or any public gathering, or who shall be drunk or intoxicated and
shall disturb the peace of any person, shall be guilty of an offense.
         b.   Public Place Defined: "Public place" shall mean any place other
than the premises of a licensee of the ABLE Commission who is authorized to
sell or serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink or on the premises of
any place for which any person has received a special event or caterer's
license from the ABLE Commission; (2019 Code)
      3.   Open a container of intoxicating beverages or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store; or
      4.   Possess more than one quart of any alcoholic beverage unless the
State Tax has been paid thereon, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
   B.   Giving As Prize; Happy Hours: No licensee shall:
      1.   Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or consideration for
any lottery, game of chance or skill or any type of competition; or (2008 Code
§ 3-108)
      2.   Use any of the following means or inducements to stimulate the
consumption of alcoholic beverages, including but not limited to:
         a.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time,
         b.   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any
drinks at a price that is less than six percent (6%) below the markup of the
cost to the mixed beverage licensee; provided, a mixed beverage licensee shall
be permitted to offer these drink specials on any particular hour of any
particular day and shall not be required to offer these drink specials for an
entire calendar week or from open to close,
         c.   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public,
         d.   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons on
any one day or portion thereof at prices less than those charged the general
public on that day, except at private functions not open to the public,
         e.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week, or
         f.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or
contest which involved drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
Provided, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not prohibit the
advertising or offering of food or entertainment in licensed establishments.
(2019 Code)
   C.   Lewdness Or Obscenity: No licensee shall: (2008 Code § 3-108)
      1.   Allow any person on the premises where beer or alcoholic beverages
are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises of the licensee where
such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to
view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of
the pubic area, buttocks or genitalia; (2008 Code § 3-108; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Permit any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate sexual
acts;
      3.   Permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any lewd activities; or
      4.   Permit the showing of films, still pictures, electronic reproduction
or other visual reproduction depicting any of the prohibited acts in this
subsection C. (2008 Code § 3-108)
   D.   Drink Solicitation: No licensee shall permit any drink solicitation, or
request from a patron to purchase any beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage
for consumption on the premises of the licensee, as those terms are defined in
this chapter. (2008 Code § 3-108; amd. 2019 Code)
4-2-7: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Selling Or Furnishing To Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall sell, deliver, furnish or give any alcoholic
beverage to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except that this
sentence shall not apply to a parent or guardian as regards his child or
children.
      2.   No licensee shall permit any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to enter, remain within or be about the premises of a retail package store
or mixed beverage establishment.
      3.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall enter, remain
within or be about the premises of a retail package store or mixed beverage
establishment. (2008 Code § 3-106)
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person shall misrepresent his age either
orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of age for
the purpose of inducing any person to sell him alcoholic beverages. (2008 Code
§ 3-110)
   C.   Employment Of Underage Persons: No licensee shall employ, assist or aid
in causing the employment of any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic
beverages. However, a mixed beverage, caterer, or special event licensee may
employ servers who are eighteen (18) years of age or older, except in
designated bar or lounge areas. (2008 Code § 3-111)
   D.   Possession In Public: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall be in possession of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any
public street, road, highway or in any public place. (2008 Code § 3-112)
4-2-8: TRANSPORTATION IN VEHICLES; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Restriction: No person shall knowingly transport alcoholic beverages in
any vehicle upon any public highway, street or alley unless in the original
container which is unopened, the seal unbroken and the original cap in place.
   B.   Exception: Subsection A of this section shall not apply if the opened
container is in the rear trunk or compartment or the spare tire compartment in
a vehicle commonly known as a station wagon or panel truck, or in any outside
compartment which is inaccessible to the driver or any passenger while the
vehicle is in motion. (2008 Code § 3-107)
4-2-9: LOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any retail spirits licensee for any beer distributor,
bottle club, brewery, brew pub or winery, which has been licensed by the ABLE
Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package store, to be
located within three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; however, a college or university located within an improvement
district created pursuant to section 39-103.1 of title 11 of the Oklahoma
Statutes may waive the three hundred foot (300') requirement by providing
written notice to the establishment seeking the license and to the ABLE
Commission. Provided, a college or university prior to waiving the three
hundred foot (300') requirement found in this section shall publish a notice of
its intention to waive such requirement in a legal newspaper of general
circulation within the State at least thirty (30) days but not more than forty
(40) days prior to providing any written notice, waiving the three hundred foot
(300') requirement, to the establishment seeking the license or to the ABLE
Commission. As used in this section "legal newspaper of general circulation in
this State" means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in section 106 of title 25 of the
Oklahoma Statutes in a majority of the counties in this State. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
such public or private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the
premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment,
bottle club or package store which has been licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages. The provisions of this section shall not apply to beer distributor,
brewery, brew pub, winery or mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine
establishments, or bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages for on- premises consumption or retail package stores prior to
November 1, 2000; provided, if at the time of application for license renewal
the licensed location has not been in actual operation for a continuous period
more than sixty (60) days, the license shall not be renewed. If any school or
church shall be established within three hundred feet (300') of any package
store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club
subject to the provisions of this section after such package store, mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club has been
licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60)
days. When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which has a license to
sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or package store, changes
ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such change of ownership
results in the same type of business being conducted on the premises, the
provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a
license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified. (2019
Code)
4-2-10: PACKAGE STORES:
Package stores licensed under the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act may
sell only alcoholic beverages in retail containers as defined in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, in the original package for consumption off the
premises. All retail sales shall be made on the licensed premises and all
deliveries off the premises, at retail, of intoxicating liquor or beer are
hereby prohibited. Provided, a holder of a retail spirits license shall be
permitted to sell at retail any item that may be purchased at a grocery store
or convenience store, as defined by law, except for motor fuel, so long as the
sale of items other than alcoholic beverages do not comprise more than twenty
percent (20%) of the holder's monthly sales. (2019 Code)
4-2-11: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   No package store licensee shall sell any alcoholic beverages at any
hour other than between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight Monday through Saturday, and shall not be permitted to
be open on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day; provided, if Dewey County,
pursuant to the provisions of subsections B and C of section 3-124, title 37A
of the Oklahoma Statutes, elect to allow such sales between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Sunday. Retail
spirits licensees shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages on the day of
any general, primary, runoff primary or special election whether on a national,
State, County, or City election, provided that the election day does not occur
on any day on which such sales are otherwise prohibited by law.
   B.   No establishment to which the mixed beverage or on premises beer and
wine Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (2019 Code)
4-2-12: SALE OR DELIVERY PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN DAYS:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: No licensee shall engage in retail sale of
alcoholic beverages on such days and times as prohibited by the State law.
(2008 Code § 3-116)
   B.   Days Enumerated: No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell
or deliver to any package store and no package store shall sell any amount of
spirits or wines on Saturday or Sunday of any week or on New Year's Day,
Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(2008 Code § 3-116; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-3-1: License And Sales Tax Permit Required; Exceptions
4-3-2: Application For License
4-3-3: Bond Required
4-3-4: Hours Of Sales
4-3-5: Invitation To Go In Private Residences Required
4-3-6: Penalty
4-3-1: LICENSE AND SALES TAX PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required; Fee:
      1.   No person, group of persons, company or organization shall engage in
the business of hawking or other peddling or soliciting in the streets or other
public places, or from door to door, or in the selling of any article of trade
or commerce whatsoever from any street, automobile, cart, wagon, pack, basket
or in any other manner, in the Town without first having obtained a license
therefor. (2008 Code § 9-201)
      2.   A license shall be issued by the Town Clerk upon application and the
rates therefor shall be as set by the Town Board by motion or resolution. (2008
Code § 9-202)
   B.   Sales Tax Permit: An applicant for a license is required to show proof
of possession of a State Sales Tax permit applicable to the proposed sales,
peddling or soliciting as required of vendors pursuant to the State Sales Tax
Code.
   C.   Exemptions: However, nothing in this section shall prohibit any person
from selling the product from his own farm or garden, grown by such person, or
any school, church, civic group or nonprofit organization from hawking,
peddling or soliciting without a license. (2008 Code § 9-201)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The Town Clerk shall require and file an instrument signed by the applicant for
such license, which instrument nominates and appoints the Town Clerk as his
true and lawful agent for the service of process for and on behalf of the
applicant, and service of summons in any action brought upon the bond shall be
deemed made with service upon the Town Clerk. (2008 Code § 9-204)
4-3-3: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Before issuing such license, the Town Clerk shall require such
applicant to furnish and deposit with the Town Clerk a bond in the penal sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), executed by a surety company, which bond
shall be first approved by the Town Clerk and shall be conditioned that all
items of trade or commerce, packed, peddled, hawked or any other article of
trade or commerce for the purpose of indemnifying and reimbursing any person
dealing with such hawker or peddler in the event of defective merchandise or
orders taken for merchandise which are not as represented.
   B.   The bond shall also be conditioned for the further purpose of insuring
that the peddler or hawker will refund any money or purchase price paid for
items of trade or commerce, which are not as represented, by reason of any
person purchasing such item of trade or commerce through misrepresentation as
to the kind, character and nature of such items of trade or commerce. Any
person so misled or aggrieved by the representation of the licensee hereunder
shall have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of the amount of his
or her payment or damages suffered or both. (2008 Code § 9-203)
4-3-4: HOURS OF SALES:
A licensee may sell or solicit or take orders in the Town only between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. daily. (2008
Code § 9-205)
4-3-5: INVITATION TO GO IN PRIVATE RESIDENCES REQUIRED:
   A.   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the Town by
solicitors, peddlers, itinerant merchants, itinerant vendors and sellers of
trade or commerce, without having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of such private residences for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or for the purpose of
disposing of or peddling or hawking the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and punishable as a misdemeanor.
   B.   However, nothing contained herein shall prohibit any person from
selling products from his own farm or garden grown by that person. (2008 Code §
9-207)
4-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or association who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 9-206)
CHAPTER 4
GARAGE SALES AND FLEA MARKETS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: Permit Required; Fee
4-4-3: Application For Permit
4-4-4: Number And Dates Of Sales
4-4-5: Posting Permit
4-4-6: Signs
4-4-7: Days And Hours
4-4-8: Exemptions
4-4-9: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term "garage sale" shall include lawn, attic and
rummage sales and flea markets. (2019 Code)
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale in the Town
without first filing with the Town Clerk the information hereinafter specified
and obtaining from the Town a permit to do so, to be known as a garage sale
permit. Once each calendar year, residents who plan to have garage or rummage
sales must obtain a garage sale permit from the Town Clerk. The fee for such a
permit shall be as established by the Town Board of Trustees by ordinance,
resolution or motion. (2019 Code)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The information to be filed with the permit application shall be as follows:
   A.   Name of owner of the property on which said sale is to be conducted if
applicant is other than the owner.
   B.   Name of person or group sponsoring the sale, if any.
   C.   Location at which the sale is to be conducted.
   D.   Dates of sale.
   E.   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing that the
information therein given is full and true and known to him or her to be so.
(2019 Code)
4-4-4: NUMBER AND DATES OF SALES:
Each mailing address within the Town will be allowed three (3) garage sales per
year. Permit issuance must take place within the calendar year, not to exceed
three (3) consecutive days, or four (4) consecutive days on holiday weekends.
After obtaining the permit, residents should call the Town Hall to inform the
Town of the dates of the sale. These dates will be recorded on the Town copy of
the garage sale permit. (2019 Code)
4-4-5: POSTING PERMIT:
The resident's copy of the permit must be on display at the premises of the
sale in clear view. (2019 Code)
4-4-6: SIGNS:
Signs advertising the location and time of the sale shall be limited to four
(4) in number. These signs shall be free standing and shall not exceed four (4)
square feet. A sign must have its own support or post to be affixed in the
ground. Under no circumstances shall a sign be attached to a telephone pole,
tree or a Federal, State or local sign or signal. All signs must be removed by
the party holding the sale within twenty four (24) hours of the last day of the
sale. (2019 Code)
4-4-7: DAYS AND HOURS:
Except as provided in section
4-4-4 of this chapter, It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow
the conducting of a garage sale for more than three (3) consecutive days or
prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day.
(2019 Code)
4-4-8: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   A.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   C.   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of personal
property which are specifically named or described in the advertisement and
which separate items do not exceed five (5) in number.
   D.   Not for profit bona fide service, religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational or veterans organizations that operate without profit to
their members, provided they file with the Town Clerk a request for exception
containing the information specified herein, together with the name of the
organization and proof of the purpose of the sale. (2019 Code)
4-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person, association or corporation conducting any garage sale without being
issued a proper permit therefor, or who shall violate any of the other terms
and regulations of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition Of Terms
4-5-2: Medical Marijuana Licenses
4-5-3: Prohibited Facilities
4-5-1: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
 
                               An establishment licensed under Title 63,
                               Section 422 of the Oklahoma Statutes whereby the
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION: growing of medical marijuana is conducted on the
                               premises and then sold to a licensed retailer or
                               processor.
                               An establishment licensed under Title 63,
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:  Section 421 of the Oklahoma Statutes whereby the
                               retail sale of medical marijuana is conducted on
                               the premises.
                               An establishment licensed under Title 63,
                               Section 423 of the Oklahoma Statutes, whereby
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR:   marijuana plants are processed (packaged) into
                               concentrates, edible, and other forms for
                               consumption. (Ord. 278, 5-6-2019)
 
4-5-2: MEDICAL MARIJUANA LICENSES:
   A.   All operators of Retail Marijuana Establishments are required to obtain
a Retail Marijuana Establishment permit from the City Clerk.
   B.   The Municipal Governing body will establish by resolution a fee to
obtain the Retail Marijuana Establishment Permit. The fee shall be used to
offset
   municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   C.   A Retail Marijuana Establishment Permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any of the following uses:
      1.   Private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   Any library or museum;
      3.   Any public playground;
      4.   Any child care center;
      5.   Any place of worship or religious assembly;
      6.   Any public park, pool, or recreation facility.
   D.   For the distance requirements outlined in this ordinance, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the proposed Medical Marijuana Dispensary to the
nearest entrance of the building or unit described above.
   E.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   F.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
Retail Marijuana Establishments permit.
   G.   It is the intent of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma that nothing in the
Retail Marijuana Establishment Ordinance be construed to: 1) allow persons to
engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public nuisance; 2) allow the use
of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or 3) allow any activity that is
otherwise illegal and not permitted by state law. (Ord. 278, 5-6-2019)
4-5-3: PROHIBITED FACILITIES:
   A.   Medical Marijuana Cultivator Facilities are hereby prohibited within
the municipal boundaries of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma.
   B.   Medical Marijuana Processors are hereby prohibited within the municipal
boundaries of the Town of Vici. (Ord. 278, 5-6-2019)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Enforcement By County Health Department
5-1-2: Obstructing Health Officer
5-1-3: Violations
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT:
Anywhere in this title where the words "Health Officer" are used, it shall be
construed to mean the Director of the County Health Department or his duly
designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and Town
Board of Trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of the
Town as set out in this title and any such decisions rendered under this title
shall be subject to review by the Governing Body upon an appeal from an
offender. (2008 Code § 8-401)
5-1-2: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any Health
Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the Health Laws of the
Town. (2008 Code § 8-402)
5-1-3: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or fail to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Director of the County Health Department or any officer charged with
enforcement of such order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (2008
Code § 8-403)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this title or any law or code adopted
by reference in this title is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (2008 Code § 8-404)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance Adopted
5-2-1: U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   The unabridged form of the latest edition of the "United States Public
Health Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code" is hereby adopted
and incorporated in this Code by reference. One copy of the sanitation
ordinance and code shall be on file in the Office of the Town Clerk. The
sanitation ordinance and code shall govern the definitions, inspection of food
service establishments, the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments, the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section. In the
sanitation ordinance and code, however, all parenthetical phrases referring to
grading and the following subsections shall be understood to be deleted:
subsection H2e, H7 and H8.
   B.   "Health authority" shall mean the Director of the County Health
Department of this County or his designated representative.
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation. (2008 Code § 8-201)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Nuisance Defined; Public And Private Nuisances
5-3-2: Persons Responsible
5-3-3: Time Does Not Legalize
5-3-4: Remedies Against Nuisances
5-3-5: Town Power To Define And Summarily Abate
5-3-6: Certain Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-3-7: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
5-3-8: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-3-9: Health Nuisances; Abatement
5-3-10: Nuisance Unlawful
5-3-11: Storage Of Personalty
5-3-12: Procedures Cumulative
5-3-1: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   Nuisance: A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform
a duty or is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property. (2008 Code § 8-301)
Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting agricultural
activities. (2019 Code)
   B.   Public Nuisance: A public nuisance is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a private nuisance. (2008 Code § 8-301)
5-3-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (2008 Code § 8-
302)
5-3-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (2008 Code § 8-303)
5-3-4: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the Town in accordance with law or ordinance. (2008 Code § 8-
304)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections
14 and 15; or
         b.   By the Town in accordance with law or ordinance. (2008 Code § 8-
305)
5-3-5: TOWN POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the Town has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
Town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the
owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (2008 Code §
8-306)
5-3-6: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this Code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Intoxicating Liquor: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
intoxicating liquor in violation of the State law or ordinances of the Town; or
keeping of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or
furnished in violation of the State law or ordinances of the Town.
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed.
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   Places Of Prostitution: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Places Where Illegal Activities Conducted: The keeping of a place
where activities in violation of State law or ordinance are practiced or
carried on.
      7.   Exposure Of Diseased Persons: The public exposure of a person having
a contagious disease.
      8.   Noisy Conditions: The continued making of loud or unusual noises
which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal
which makes such noises.
      9.   Interfering With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others.
      10.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or
a place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      11.   Stagnant Water Bodies: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety. (2008 Code § 8-307)
      12.   Unwholesome Accumulations And Premises: Accumulations in the open
of broken or unused metal, wood, lumber, cement, electrical fixtures, plumbing
fixtures, building materials (but excluding building materials awaiting use and
stored for a reasonable period of time for allowable or improvement presently
in progress on the same premises), discarded or unused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, trash, debris, rubbish or other material, in a
manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank
growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or items accumulated in a
manner creating fire, health, or safety hazards. (2019 Code)
      13.   Dangerous Structures: Any building or structure which is dangerous
to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
      14.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      15.   Fire And Explosion Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      16.   Dangerous Businesses: Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      17.   Unlicensed, Stored Vehicles: Any motor vehicle (whether in
operating condition or not) or any trailer without a current vehicle plate as
required by law for vehicles used on the public highways, when stored or kept
in a residence district.
      18.   Animal Shelters And Noises: Any stable or other place where animals
are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the Town, by
reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack
of sanitation, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The enumeration of certain public nuisances in
subsection A of this section shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions
of law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more
general or more specific terms. (2008 Code § 8-307)
5-3-7: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Dangerous Circumstances: Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or
other appropriate officer or agency of the Town government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend
the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Submission Of Statement Of Nuisance: The Chief of the Fire Department,
the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney, the building inspector, the electrical
inspector, the plumbing inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor
may submit, through or with the consent of the Mayor to the Town Board of
Trustees, a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the
ordinances of the Town or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated. The Mayor himself, the Health Officer and Board of Trustees or any
resident or residents of the Town may submit such a statement and request a
recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not
the alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering
evidence on the subject, the Board of Trustees shall have power to subpoena and
examine witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate
the nuisance or have it abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the Town.
   D.   Board Action; Order Abatement; Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the
specified time, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Mayor to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized
by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16.
      2.   The Town Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the Town
collectible as other debts to the Town may be collected. (2008 Code § 8-308)
5-3-8: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the Town
may bring suit in the District Court of the County, as provided in 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17. (2008 Code § 8-309; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3-9: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Authority Of Health Officer; Notice To Abate:
      1.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1011, the Health Officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of
any private premises in the Town to remove from such premises, at his own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be directed in writing
and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or
authorized agent thereof, by the Health Officer or by a police officer or a
copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner,
occupant or agent, if known and within the State.
      2.   If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the Town, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the Town.
   B.   Abatement By Town; Costs:
      1.   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the Town Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other Town utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the Town water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added
and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same regulations relating
to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
      2.   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any Town utility service,
such cost, after certification to the Town Clerk, may be collected in any
manner in which any other debt due the Town may be collected. (2008 Code § 8-
311)
5-3-10: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the Town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the Town.
(2008 Code § 8-310)
5-3-11: STORAGE OF PERSONALTY:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Unsheltered storage of unused, stripped, junked, and
other automobiles, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, watercraft or any other
motor vehicle, not in good and safe operating condition and bearing a current
State of Oklahoma license or registration for that type of vehicle, and of any
other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property
of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, all of which is hereinafter described as "said personalty", for
any period of thirty (30) days or more within any given year (except in
licensed junkyards) within the corporate limits of the Town is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
   B.   Interpretation:
      1.   For purposes of this section, "unsheltered storage" means said
personalty which is not stored in a permitted structure complying with the then
existing and controlling Town ordinances.
      2.   The period of one year, for purposes of considering whether or not a
continuing violation exists, commences upon the date of notice of the
violation. In the event that any violation is corrected but a same or similar
act occurs within the one year time period set forth herein, it shall be
considered a continuation of the original violation, and each day that said
violation exists may be considered a separate violation as well as a
continuation of the original violation. (2019 Code)
5-3-12: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (2008 Code § 8-313)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Accumulations Unlawful
5-4-3: Reports Of Accumulations On Property
5-4-4: Receipt Of Report; Hearing And Notice
5-4-5: Work Done By Employees Or Contract
5-4-6: Determination And Assessment Of Costs
5-4-7: Lien On Property; Civil Remedy
5-4-8: Service Of Notice
5-4-9: Depositing Rubbish
5-4-10: Burning Refuse; Permit
5-4-11: Removal Of Dead Animals
5-4-12: Littering
5-4-13: Garbage Accumulations On Public Or Private Property
5-4-14: Abandoned Ice Boxes, Refrigerators
5-4-15: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the County
Treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEEDS:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
      1.    Exceeds eight (8) inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption or own in a tended and cultivated garden
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to property or otherwise interfere
with the mowing of the weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (2008 Code § 8-102; amd. Ord.
275, 6-15-2016; 2019 Code; Ord. 279, 7-6-2020)
5-4-2: ACCUMULATIONS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the Town to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds. (2008
Code § 8-101)
5-4-3: REPORTS OF ACCUMULATIONS ON PROPERTY:
Any officer or employee of the Town who discovers an accumulation of trash or
the growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the Town shall report the condition to the Town Clerk if,
as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to be:
   A.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   B.   A hazard to traffic;
   C.   A fire hazard to property; or
   D.   Any two (2) or more of these conditions. (2008 Code § 8-103)
5-4-4: RECEIPT OF REPORT; HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   Report Considered By Town Board: Upon receiving the report provided for
in section
5-4-3 of this chapter, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the Town Clerk shall place the matter upon the agenda of the
Town Board for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date which will
permit the giving of the notices prescribed by State law. At the hearing, the
Board shall consider whether the premises, by reason of the conditions
specified, are detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and
the community, or a hazard to traffic, or a fire hazard to property, or any two
(2) or more of such conditions. (2008 Code § 8-104)
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the Town Clerk shall
give written notice of the hearing by posting upon the premises and by
forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested to
the owner of the property at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls
in the Office of the County Treasurer. The notice shall order the property
owner to clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on
the property as appropriate, and the notice shall further state that unless
such work is performed within ten (10) days of the date of the notice the work
shall be done by the Municipality and a notice of lien shall be filed with the
County Clerk against the property for the costs due and owing the Municipality.
(2019 Code)
      2.   If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot be
located, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation one time not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   C.   Hearing; Determination Of Board:
      1.   At least ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the notice by the
owner or the date of publication and upon the date specified in the notice, the
Town Board shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon,
including anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises,
personally or by agent or attorney.
      2.   If the Board determines that any of the conditions specified in
section
5-4-3 of this chapter exist upon the premises, it may order the property to be
cleaned of trash, or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed
unless, within ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the notice or date of
publication, the owner either:
         a.   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with
the notice; or
         b.   Gives written consent authorizing the Town to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his right to a hearing. (2008 Code § 8-104)
5-4-5: WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT:
The work ordered to be performed under section
5-4-4 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the Town under
supervision of the Town Utility or Sanitation Department, or it may be let by
contract to the lowest and best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner
for letting other contracts. (2008 Code § 8-105)
5-4-6: DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under section
5-4-5 of this chapter, the Town Clerk shall report the cost thereof to the Town
Board. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract of property involved as
follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of
notice, other costs and indirect costs of five percent (5%) of direct actual
costs. The Board shall examine the report and, after receiving appropriate
information, shall determine the total costs of the work. The Board shall
direct the Town Clerk to forward a statement and demand payment of the total
cost by certified mail with return receipt requested to the owner of the
property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the Office of the
County Treasurer. (2008 Code § 8-106; amd. 2019 Code)
5-4-7: LIEN ON PROPERTY; CIVIL REMEDY:
   A.   Lien: If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not
paid within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by
section
5-4-6 of this chapter, the Town Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the costs to the County Treasurer in order that the amount be
levied upon the property and be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner
prescribed by the laws of this State. The lien is coequal with the lien of ad
valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid. (2008 Code § 8-107; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Civil Remedy: At any time prior to collection as provided in this
section, the Town may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount
owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk
shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing
discharge of the lien. (2008 Code § 8-107)
5-4-8: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by the
return of the officer making such service, certified in his official capacity,
and filed in the Office of the Town Clerk. (2008 Code § 8-108)
5-4-9: DEPOSITING RUBBISH:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the Town. (2008 Code
§ 8-109)
5-4-10: BURNING REFUSE; PERMIT:
   A.   It is unlawful to wilfully burn any trash or refuse or any type
material within the Town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash, waste paper, rubbish or
refuse except under a permit issued by the State Health Department or U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. (2008 Code § 8-110)
5-4-11: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the Town shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. (2008 Code § 8-
111)
5-4-12: LITTERING:
   A.   Littering Defined; Unlawful:
      1.   Littering is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, waste paper, tin
cans, bottles or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the Town or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to litter. (2008 Code § 8-112)
   B.   Littering From Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to throw from
any automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the Town any litter, trash, waste paper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever. (2008 Code § 8-113)
5-4-13: GARBAGE ACCUMULATIONS ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Allowing Accumulation: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
trash, waste paper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or
disposed of objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so
occupied or rented to such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   B.   Allowing Trash To Be Carried To Other Property: It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or
owner, to allow accumulated trash, waste paper, litter objects, bottles, tin
cans or any other used or disposed of objects to be carried from the occupied
premises, either by the wind, elements or otherwise, to any adjoining or other
real estate not so owned or occupied by the offender. (2008 Code § 8-114)
   C.   Dumping Trash On Public Or Private Property:
      1.   Any person who deliberately places, throws, dumps, drops, deposits,
or discards any garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse, debris, or other
deleterious substance on: a) any public property (including in trash
receptacles and/or refuse containers), within the Municipal limits of the Town;
or b) any private property of another (including in trash receptacles and/or
refuse containers), located within the Municipal limits of the Town, without
the consent of the property owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 256,
11-4-2002)
      2.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of subsection C1 of
this section shall be punished by a fine. (Ord. 256, 11-4-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   In addition to the penalty prescribed in subsection C2 of this
section, the court may direct the person to make restitution to the property
owner affected; to remove and properly dispose of the garbage, trash, waste,
refuse, or debris from the property; to pick up, remove, and properly dispose
of garbage, trash, waste, refuse, debris, and other nonhazardous deleterious
substances from public property, or perform community service or any
combination thereof. (Ord. 256, 11-4-2002)
5-4-14: ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned, unattended, or discarded ice box, refrigerator, or other container
of a capacity of one and one- half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which has an air
tight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily
released for opening from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator, or
container, without first removing the door, lock, or fastener. (2008 Code § 8-
115; amd. 2019 Code)
5-4-15: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 8-116)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Fireworks Regulated
5-5-2: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
5-5-1: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the
meaning prescribed by State law, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622.
   B.   Use Restricted: The purchase, sale, offer for sale, use, discharge,
ignition, or possession of fireworks within the corporate limits of the Town is
hereby prohibited prior to June 20 and after July 5 each year, except for
authorized displays approved in accordance with the Fire Prevention Code, and
public displays conducted by the Town Fire Department with approval in advance
by the Board of Trustees. All fireworks shall be discharged in a safe and sane
manner. (Ord. 276, 6-15-2016)
5-5-2: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the Town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the State
for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such items. (2008 Code § 10-304)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Chief
6-1-2: Duties Of Department
6-1-3: Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police,
or Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and removable by the
Board. The Chief of Police is an officer of the Town, and has supervision and
control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the Town.
(2008 Code § 13-301)
6-1-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Duties Enumerated: It is the duty of the Police Department to:
      1.   Apprehend and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all
violators of the ordinances of the Town;
      2.   Suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come
to their knowledge, and generally to keep the peace;
      3.   Serve all warrants, writs, executions, and other processes properly
directed and delivered to them;
      4.   Apprehend and arrest persons violating Federal or State law as
provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and
      5.   In all respects, perform all duties pertaining to the offices of
police officers. (2008 Code § 13-302)
6-1-3: POLICE OFFICERS:
Police officers shall be appointed, subject to approval of the Town Board of
Trustees, who shall perform such duties as shall be required of them by the
Chief of Police, Town ordinances, Federal, State and County regulations and any
other actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace. (2008
Code § 13-303)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established; Chief
6-2-2: Duties Of Fire Chief And Assistant Chief
6-2-3: Company Officers
6-2-4: Secretary-Treasurer
6-2-5: New Members
6-2-6: Bylaws
6-2-7: Rules And Regulations
6-2-8: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
6-2-9: Service Outside Town
6-2-10: Firefighters' Pension And Retirement System And Fund
6-2-11:    Full Disclosure And Financial Transparency
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; CHIEF:
   A.   Department And Chief: There shall be a Fire Department, the head of
which shall be the Chief of the Fire Department.
   B.   Volunteer Fire Department:
      1.   The term "volunteer firefighter" means one who is enrolled as a
member of the Fire Department of the Town and who serves in that capacity
without receiving a regular salary. (2008 Code § 13-201)
      2.   The size of the Volunteer Fire Department of the Town shall be
composed of not less than six (6) nor more than twenty five (25) members. (2008
Code § 13-201; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   General Duties Of Department: It is the duty of the Fire Department,
among others, to:
      1.   Extinguish fires;
      2.   Rescue persons endangered by fire;
      3.   Resuscitate, and to administer first aid to, persons injured in or
about burning structures, or elsewhere in case of an emergency;
      4.   Promote fire prevention; and
      5.   Unless otherwise provided, enforce all ordinances relating to fires,
fire prevention, and safety of persons from fire in public and private
buildings. (2008 Code § 13-201)
6-2-2: DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF:
   A.   Generally: The Chief shall be the administrative head of the
department, subject to the laws of the State, ordinances of the Town, and the
rules and regulations adopted in this chapter.
   B.   Duties Enumerated: The Chief shall have the following powers and
duties, and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
      1.   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and
control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and control of the
Town Board;
      2.   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The Chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case; (2008 Code § 13-202)
      7.   The Chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
Town at any reasonable hour with the permission of the owner/occupant or with
probable cause to suspect a violation of this Code or State law, for the
purpose of making inspections and to serve written notice on persons for any
violations that may be found; and (2008 Code § 13-202; amd. 2019 Code)
      8.   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the Town Board as it may require. The
Chief shall keep the Board of Trustees informed regarding the Fire Department
and its needs. (2008 Code § 13-202)
   C.   Assistant Chief:
      1.   The Assistant Chief shall be elected from among the members of the
Fire Department.
      2.   Duties: In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty
shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects
with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief. (2008 Code § 13-203)
6-2-3: COMPANY OFFICERS:
Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based upon the following
criteria:
   A.   Knowledge of firefighting;
   B.   Leadership ability; and
   C.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2008 Code § 13-204)
6-2-4: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   Selection From Members: One member elected by the members of the Fire
Department shall be a Secretary-Treasurer.
   B.   Duties: Duties of the Secretary-Treasurer shall consist of the
following.
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (2008 Code §
13-205)
6-2-5: NEW MEMBERS:
New members of the department shall be appointed by the Chief and shall be on
probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the Fire Department and the Town Board. (2008 Code § 13-206)
6-2-6: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All Volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held each
month.
   D.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be removed from the
Fire Department rolls.
   E.   Any member leaving the Town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief.
   F.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be removed.
   G.   Any member of the Fire Department may be removed from the rolls for the
following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department;
      5.   Conviction of a felony; or
      6.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
Town Board of Trustees. (2008 Code § 13-207)
6-2-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and
compensation. (2008 Code § 13-208)
6-2-8: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away or conceal
any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter any place
where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging
to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of,
an officer or authorized member of the department. (2008 Code § 13-209)
6-2-9: SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN:
   A.   Contracts Authorized: The Town is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the State for fire
protection not to exceed five (5) miles outside the corporate limits of the
Town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with other
organizations and municipalities of the State. (2008 Code § 13-210)
   B.   Contract Terms; Fees For Service:
      1.   Any contract entered into by the Town with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation, or association, for outside aid, or mutual aid for
fire protection shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, or political subdivision to the Town for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the Town Board of
Trustees.
      2.   All monies received from the calls shall go into the General Fund.
(2008 Code § 13-211)
   C.   Authority To Answer Calls: The Fire Department of the Town is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls within a distance of five
(5) miles from the nearest fire station where there is imminent peril and
danger to life or property; otherwise there is no duty to answer such calls
unless specifically requested by the property owner and then not if, in the
opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another
fire in the Town, impassable or dangerous roads, inoperable equipment or other
physical reasons. (2008 Code § 13-212)
   D.   Rural Fire Run Fees: There is hereby levied a rural fire run fee in an
amount set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution for
firefighting services performed by the Town Fire Department outside the
corporate limits of the Town. The fee, which shall be collected by the Town
Clerk, shall be levied and charged against the property owner upon whose
property the Fire Department enters for the purposes of rendering firefighting
services or related services. Fees, when collected, shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the Town. (2008 Code § 13-213)
   E.   Serving In Regular Line Of Duty:
      1.   All volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department of the Town
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the
corporate limits of the Town, as herein provided, shall be considered as
serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within
the corporate limits of the Town.
      2.   The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
Firefighters' Pension and Relief Fund in the same manner as if the firefighting
or fire prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the Town.
      3.   Compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the Board of
Trustees by ordinance or resolution. (2008 Code § 13-214)
   F.   Department Considered Agent Of State: The Fire Department of the Town
answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire prevention services
outside the corporate limits of the Town shall be considered as an agent of the
State, and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the Town
shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this section. (2008 Code
§ 13-215)
6-2-10: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM AND FUND:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: The Town's Firefighters' Pension and
Retirement System and Fund shall be operated in accordance with State law
relating to the fund and system. (2008 Code § 2-501)
   B.   Contributions To Fund:
      1.   The Town Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the Fire Department the amounts which are required by applicable
State law. If the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The Treasurer of the Town shall deposit monthly
with the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board the amounts
deducted pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or
wages of a Fire Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll.
The deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be
able to ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
      2.   The Town Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable State law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
      3.   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the Town Treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement
Board the amounts of money which are required by applicable State law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board.
      4.   All assets of the Town Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Fund
shall be transferred to the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement
Board. Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities
and such other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(2008 Code § 2-502)
6-2-11: FULL DISCLOSURE AND FINANCIAL TRANSPARENCY:
   A.   Each month, on the last Friday of the month, an officer of Fire
Department shall deliver to the Town Clerk a copy of all bank records into
which Fire Department deposits and withdraws any funds.
   B.   Fire Department shall, within ninety (90) days after the end of its
fiscal year, provide the Town of Vici with a statement of income or loss and a
balance sheet that relates to the fire protection services being provided to
the municipality. The statement shall be prepared in conformance with generally
accepted accounting principles along with an opinion of fair presentation by a
certified public accountant.
   C.   The Fire Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, equipment, personnel and other information about the work of the
department, and shall make such reports as the Board of Trustees may require.
(Res. 3-22, 4-4-2022)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Organization Created; Purpose And Duties
6-3-2: Department Established
6-3-3: Emergency Manager
6-3-4: Emergency Powers
6-3-5: Compensation Of Members; Nonliability Of Town For Injuries
6-3-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED; PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
An Emergency Management Organization is created for the Town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the Town. The duty of the Emergency
Management Organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of the
citizens of the Town and of property and property rights, both private and
public, and to perform all functions necessary and incidental thereto. (2019
Code)
6-3-2: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management which shall
consist of an Emergency Manager, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the Board of Trustees, who shall serve at the pleasure of said
Board and may be the Chief of Police. (2019 Code)
6-3-3: EMERGENCY MANAGER:
The Emergency Manager shall be the executive head of the Emergency Management
Department and shall be responsible for carrying out the Emergency Management
Program of the Town. The Emergency Manager may be reimbursed for expenses
incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be the duty of the
Emergency Manager, as soon as practicable after his appointment, to perfect an
organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter, and he shall
have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and
to appoint and designate the Chair or Chief Officer of such bodies as may be
necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall have such further duty and
responsibility to cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other
governmental units including the State of Oklahoma and the Federal government.
The Emergency Manager is further authorized to formulate written plans and
gather information and keep written records thereof to govern the functions of
the Emergency Management Organization. (2019 Code)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Emergency Manager, after due authorization from the Mayor,
shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to emergency management for the purpose of protecting the civilian
population. He shall cooperate in every way with the activities of the
governmental agencies or emergency management organization; and if required by
the Chair of the Board of Trustees, shall have control over any and all funds
allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in
the Town.
   B.   The Emergency Manager and other members of the Emergency Management
Organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the State of Oklahoma, this Code and ordinances of the Town during the
period of emergency, and shall, at such time, have the further power to make
arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances. (2019 Code)
6-3-5: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS; NONLIABILITY OF TOWN FOR INJURIES:
All members of the Emergency Management Organization created hereunder shall
serve without compensation. The Town shall not be liable for any personal
injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the line of
duty; provided, however, the Town may contribute to expenses jointly with the
County in an amount as provided by resolution, which amount shall be added to
the budget and drawn upon by claim of the Chair of the Emergency Management
Organization. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-4A-2: Aiding In An Offense
6-4A-3: Penalty
6-4A-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
Town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (2008 Code § 10-101)
6-4A-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2008 Code § 10-102)
6-4A-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 10-701)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-4B-1: Petit Larceny
6-4B-2: Injuring Vehicles
6-4B-3: Destruction Of Buildings And Other Property
6-4B-4: Advertisements
6-4B-5: Throwing Or Shooting Objects Or Substances
6-4B-6: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
6-4B-7: Injuring Plants, Streets And Public Property
6-4B-8: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
6-4B-9: Trespassing; Illegal Entrance
6-4B-10: Parking, Placing Objects On Property Of Another
6-4B-11: Interference With Fire Hydrants
6-4B-1: PETIT LARCENY:
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with
intent to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such
property from the "person" of another. (2008 Code § 10-201; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (2008 Code § 10-201)
6-4B-2: INJURING VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2008
Code § 10-202)
6-4B-3: DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2008 Code § 10-203)
6-4B-4: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Placing Signs On Property Of Another: It is unlawful for any person to
place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark, write or print any sign, poster,
picture, announcement, advertisement, bill, placard, device or inscription upon
any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post,
automobile, other vehicle or other property of another, without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof. (2008 Code § 10-204)
   B.   Leaving Advertising Materials On Streets: It is unlawful for any person
to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be thrown, left or deposited, upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public area, any handbill, circular, or other
advertising matter. (2008 Code § 10-209)
6-4B-5: THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS OR SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Stones Or Other Objects: It is unlawful for any person to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object into or across any street or alley, or in
any place where he is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure
property, or to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person,
vehicle, structure, electric light or other property of another (whether public
or private), except in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of
another person or of property. (2008 Code § 10-205)
   B.   Injurious Substances: It is unlawful for any person to purposely or
premeditatedly put or throw upon the person or property of another, or upon any
animal, any acid, corrosive or other irritating or harmful substance, or human
or animal waste or urine, with intent to injure or harass the person, property
or animal. (2008 Code § 10-210)
6-4B-6: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Unlawful Connection: It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach
any kind of pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other
conductor carrying gas, water or electricity and belonging to a public utility
(whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to
consume or use the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the
meter or any other way so as to evade payment therefor.
   B.   Injury Or Destruction: It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of any
public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system. (2008 Code § 10-
206)
6-4B-7: INJURING PLANTS, STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Plants And Park Property:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the Town, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground.
      2.   Any person violating this subsection A, upon conviction, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense. (2008 Code § 10-211)
   B.   Public Streets And Trees:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the Town;
         b.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
         c.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the Town;
         d.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the Town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
         e.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town inspector so to do.
      2.   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done
under the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer. (2008 Code
§ 10-212)
6-4B-8: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the Town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the Town, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (2008 Code § 10-207)
6-4B-9: TRESPASSING; ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
be defined as follows:
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the Federal, State or Municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: 1. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
      2.   Trespass shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises
by the owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful
possession of the premises.
      3.   Trespass shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
      4.   Trespass shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this subsection.
   B.   Trespass On Private Property: It is unlawful for any person to trespass
on private property. (2008 Code § 10-213)
   C.   Illegal Entrance:
      1.   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another
or into an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or any notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another
after having been given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or
person in charge. (2008 Code § 10-208)
6-4B-10: PARKING, PLACING OBJECTS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance. (2008 Code § 10-214)
6-4B-11: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Opening, Interfering With Hydrant: It is unlawful for any person except
one duly authorized by the Town Fire Chief or a member of the Fire Department
to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with, any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the Town.
   B.   Obstructing Access: It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to
any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing, or in any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (2008 Code
§ 10-215)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC AND PERSONS
SECTION:
6-4C-1: Assault And Battery
6-4C-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-4C-3: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
6-4C-4: Weapons And Firearms Restrictions
6-4C-5: Loud Noise Or Music; Amplified Sound
6-4C-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
    ASSAULT: Any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer with force
or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another, or by making any physical contact with another without
consent.
   B.   Prohibition:
      1.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the Town.
      2.   Any person committing an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the Town shall be guilty of an offense. (2008 Code § 10-
501)
6-4C-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or
others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Acts Described: Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise; (2008 Code § 10-
301)
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of three (3) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously; (2008 Code § 10-301;
amd. 2019 Code)
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (2008 Code § 10-301)
6-4C-3: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   Signs: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
Town to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the Town, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   B.   Language Or Literature: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use,
utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or
insulting language or literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (2008 Code § 10-302)
6-4C-4: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Carrying Concealed Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to carry
concealed upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife,
dirk knife, switch blade knife, spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line of
duty or as may be permitted by law. (2008 Code § 10-305)
   B.   Reckless Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such
actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability
of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious
disregard for the safety of another person. (2008 Code § 10-306)
   C.   Discharging Firearms, Weapons:
      1.   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the Town except
when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinances.
      2.   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or discharge a BB gun
within the Town limits except when under the supervision and/or sponsorship of
an Oklahoma 4-H Shooting Sports Club, or similarly situated association, and
subsequent to obtaining the permission of the Board of Trustees to do so.
      3.   It is unlawful to shoot a bow and arrow within or on real property
owned by the Town, except when under the supervision and/or sponsorship of an
Oklahoma 4-H Shooting Sports Club, or similarly situated association, and
subsequent to obtaining the permission of the Board of Trustees to do so. (Ord.
260, 4-5-2004)
   D.   Target Shooting:
      1.   "Target shooting" is defined as deliberate aiming and discharging of
a firearm at or toward a specific object, whether the object be a formal
printed target in the form of a bullseye, silhouette, or outline, or an
informal object such as a can, bottle, rock or other object.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in target shooting with
firearms whether done alone or in a formal or informal match with others. (2008
Code § 10-309)
6-4C-5: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC; AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and
quietude of any part of the Town by operating, having operated, or permitting
to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or
any other device, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit
loud music, noise or words.
   B.   Exception: However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies
from playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. (2008 Code §
10-308)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
6-4D-1: Alcohol And Drug Related Offenses
6-4D-2: Prostitution
6-4D-3: Disorderly House
6-4D-4: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
6-4D-5: Obscenity
6-4D-6: Vagrancy
6-4D-7: Sleeping Or Loitering In Public
6-4D-8: Begging
6-4D-9: Gambling
6-4D-10: Harmful Deception
6-4D-11: False Or Bogus Checks
6-4D-12: Swindling
6-4D-13: Restrictions On Smokable Medical Marijuana And Medical Marijuana
Products
6-4D-1: ALCOHOL AND DRUG RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Public Intoxication And Drinking:
      1.   Definition: For the purposes of this subsection A, a state of
intoxication means the condition in which a person is under the influence of
any intoxicating beverage, beer, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any
narcotic or drug, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full
physical or mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or
others.
      2.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley, or other public place in the Town in a state of intoxication,
and thereby to disturb the peace of any person.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating beverages or
beer, as defined by 37A Oklahoma Statutes, upon or in any street, alley, or
other public place within the Town. (2008 Code § 10-401; amd. 2019 Code)
         c.   It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another any illegal
drug or narcotic in any place in the Town except as legally prescribed by a
physician. (2008 Code § 10-401)
   B.   Possession Or Transportation Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection B, "intoxicating
beverage" shall be as defined in section
6-5C-1 of this title and "beer" shall be as defined in section
4-2-1 of this Code.
      2.   Possession Within Town Limits: It is unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to be in possession of any intoxicating
beverage or beer while such person is upon any public street, road or highway
or in any public place within the Town limits.
      3.   Parent Or Guardian To Permit Possession: It is unlawful for any
parent or guardian of a person under the age of twenty one (21) years to permit
such person to be in possession of an intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
      4.   Transport In Moving Vehicle: It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon a public highway, street or
alley any intoxicating beverage or beer except in the original container which
shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not
have been removed unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment. The rear trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire
compartment in a station wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which
is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is
in motion. (2008 Code § 10-402; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Additional Prohibitions Concerning Alcoholic Beverages: It is unlawful
for any person to:
      1.   Barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to another any
intoxicating beverage or beer of any kind except as permitted by law;
      2.   Have in possession or under control any intoxicating beverage or
beer except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from
place to place in the Town any intoxicating beverage or beer except as
permitted by law;
      3.   Loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor or beer is sold,
bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   Keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
intoxicating liquor or beer is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise
furnished in violation of law. (2008 Code § 10-403; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Marijuana:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
    DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section 2-101, including the factors to determine in 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section 2-101.1.
   MARIJUANA: Shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2-101.
      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
         a.   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant,
compound, convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute,
dispense or possess with intent to manufacture, distribute or dispense
marijuana;
         b.   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana;
         c.   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
         d.   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the Town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
      3.   Exception: This subsection D shall not apply to any marijuana
lawfully obtained or authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed
physician while acting in the course of his professional practice. (2008 Code §
10-404)
6-4D-2: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
    LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   PROSTITUTION: Prostitution means:
      1.   The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any thing of value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution. (2008 Code § 10-405; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      6.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
within the limits of Town. (2008 Code § 10-405)
6-4D-3: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   Definition; Prohibited Acts: A disorderly house means any structure or
vehicle by which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public
is disturbed by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of
the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by State Statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the Town or Statutes of
the State regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by State Statute
or Town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any State Statute or Town ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (2008 Code § 10-406)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house. No person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (2008 Code §
10-407)
   C.   Residents And Visitors:
      1.   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this subsection, the Town
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to physicians or officers in the
discharge of their professional or official duties. (2008 Code § 10-408)
6-4D-4: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the Town in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the Town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (2008 Code § 10-
409)
6-4D-5: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms when used in this section shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
    AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: Means that the matter or performance may be
purchased or attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement,
or for a separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: Means that to the average person applying contemporary community
standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion;
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (2008 Code § 10-410)
   B.   Prohibited Obscene Conduct:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material; or
         b.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
         c.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         d.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            (1)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            (3)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            (4)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      2.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not
acting as director or manager of the theater. (2008 Code § 10-411)
6-4D-6: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the Town.
   B.   Acts Of Vagrancy Described: For the purposes of this section, a vagrant
means any person who loiters or remains in or wanders about a public or private
place for any of the following purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying or defacing any property of
another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (2008
Code § 10-412)
6-4D-7: SLEEPING OR LOITERING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Sleeping In Public Places: It is unlawful for any person, between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., to sleep
on any street, in any other public place, or on any property of another without
the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   B.   Loitering Near Schools, Public Places: It is unlawful for a person to
loiter on or about the premises of any public or private school or other public
building, or in or about a depot of a public carrier. (2008 Code § 10-414)
6-4D-8: BEGGING:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (2008 Code § 10-415)
6-4D-9: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         a.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         b.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         c.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         d.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense against the Town for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value. (2008 Code § 10-416)
   B.   Loitering Near Gambling Activities: It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (2008
Code § 10-417)
6-4D-10: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2008 Code § 10-418)
6-4D-11: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
   A.   The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include checks or
orders, including those converted to electronic fund transfer, which are not
honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same or because
the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent account
when such checks or orders are given:
      1.   In exchange for money or property;
      2.   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value;
      3.   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof; or
      4.   As payment made to a landlord under a lease or rental agreement.
   B.   The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest
fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for payment; and
provided, further, that the check or order is presented for payment within
thirty (30) days after the same is delivered and accepted.
   C.   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is refused
by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the seller
of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
   D.   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account of
the maker with the merchant shall mean "a check or order given in exchange for
a benefit or thing of value", notwithstanding that the merchant may debit the
account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in the
event the check or order is not honored. (2019 Code)
6-4D-12: SWINDLING:
It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act. (2008 Code § 10-420)
6-4D-13: RESTRICTIONS ON SMOKABLE MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PRODUCTS:
   A.   All smokable, vaporized, vapable and e-cigarette medical marijuana and
medical marijuana products ingested, smoked, or consumed by a patient license
holder is subject to the same restrictions for tobacco under Section 1-1521 et.
seq. of Title 63 of Oklahoma Statutes, commonly referred to as the “Smoking in
Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act”.
   B.   All smokable, vaporized, vapable and e-cigarette medical marijuana and
medical marijuana products consumed or smoked by a patient medical marijuana
license holder shall not be smoked nor consumed in the presence of a minor
under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 277, 5-6-2019)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
6-4E-1: Resisting An Officer Or Public Official
6-4E-2: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
6-4E-3: Assault Or Battery Upon Police Or Other Law Officer
6-4E-4: Rescuing Prisoners; Escape Of Prisoners
6-4E-5: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-4E-6: False Alarms
6-4E-7: False Representation To An Officer
6-4E-8: Removal Of Barricades
6-4E-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER OR PUBLIC OFFICIAL:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection A, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   OBSTRUCTION OF: This term shall, in addition to its common meaning, include:
         a.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
         b.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he is under arrest; or
         c.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his
identity known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
      2.   Resisting, Assaulting, Interfering With Officer: It is unlawful to
resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere with a police officer or any
person duly authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is
discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of
the Town.
      3.   Warning Or Aiding Another To Flee: It is unlawful for any person to
warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape or
evade an officer seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any
door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching officer. (2008
Code § 10-601)
   B.   Public Officials: It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully
to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the Town in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (2008 Code §
10-610)
6-4E-2: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Seek Assistance: An officer of the Town making or about to
make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in
accordance with the ordinances of the Town or with State or Federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call
upon person or persons to assist him in making such arrest, executing such
process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   Refusal Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the Town to refuse or fail to do so. (2008 Code §
10-602)
6-4E-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (2008 Code § 10-603)
6-4E-4: RESCUING PRISONERS; ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
   A.   Rescuing: It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set
at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners,
from any officer or employee of the Town having legal custody of the same or
from the Town Jail or other place of confinement by the Town, or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or
after conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (2008 Code §
10-604)
   B.   Aid In Escape: It is unlawful for any person confined in the Town Jail
or other place of confinement by the Town, or working upon the streets or other
public places of the Town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in
legal custody by authority of the Town, to escape or attempt to escape from any
such jail, prison or custody. (2008 Code § 10-605)
6-4E-5: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
Town, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the Town, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the Town without being duly authorized to do so. (2008
Code § 10-606)
6-4E-6: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (2008 Code § 10-607)
6-4E-7: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the Town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the Town. (2008 Code § 10-608)
6-4E-8: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the Town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2008 Code § 10-609)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
ARTICLE A. CURFEW
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Definitions
6-5A-2: Age And Hour Restrictions
6-5A-3: Exceptions
6-5A-4: Parental Responsibility
6-5A-5: Police Procedure
6-5A-6: Penalty
6-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings given herein:
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or adoptive
parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco parentis; or
d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court having
proper jurisdiction.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment, or lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other places devoted to amusement
or entertainment or the general public. It shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four (4)
or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using the streets for
ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or, in the case of sidewalk
thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term street includes the legal right-of-
way, including, but limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the curb, the
sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds,
found within the legal right-of-way of a street.
TIME OF NIGHT: As referred to herein is based upon the prevailing standard of
time, whether Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally
observed at that hour by the public.
TOWN: The Town of Vici, Dewey County, Oklahoma.
YEAR OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent
to the phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age". (Ord. 264, 9-5-2006)
6-5A-2: AGE AND HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Week Nights: It shall be unlawful for any person sixteen (16) or less
years of age (under 17 years of age) to be or remain in or upon the streets or
public places within the Town at night on week nights (Sunday through Thursday)
during the period ending at six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and beginning at eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   B.   Weekend Nights: It shall be unlawful for any person sixteen (16) or
less years of age (under 17 years of age) to be or remain in or upon the
streets or public places within the Town at night on weekend nights (Friday and
Saturday) during the period ending at six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 264, 9-5-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
6-5A-3: EXCEPTIONS:
In the following exception cases, a minor on a Town street or in a public place
during the nocturnal hours for which section
6-5A-2 of this article is intended to provide for maximum limits of regulation
and does not constitute a violation of the curfew regulations:
   A.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   B.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take said parent's place accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time, date and purpose within a specified area. Said authorized adult shall
possess a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned by the
parent/legal guardian of such minor which would include their home address and
telephone number. Said authorized adult shall have this communication from the
minor's parent/legal guardian in his possession.
   C.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such exercise by
possessing a written communication, signed by such minor and countersigned by a
parent or legal guardian of such minor, with their home address and telephone
number, specifying time and dates when, and where, and in what manner said
minor will be on the streets and other public places at night (during hours
when the curfew regulations are otherwise applicable to said minor) in the
exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such communication.
   D.   The minor is on an errand, specific business or activity of an
emergency nature directed or permitted by his parent.
   E.   If the minor has in said minor's possession a written communication
signed by the minor, countersigned by a parent or legal guardian of such minor
evidencing their home address and telephone number, and establishing such
reason relating to a direct route for a designated time for a described purpose
including points of origin and destination. Each communication will also note
the date and time limits the reason will encompass.
   F.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer.
   G.   When returning home, by a direct route, from (and within 45 minutes of
the termination of) a school activity, or an activity of a religious or the
voluntary association, provided the minor has a written communication in the
minor's possession, countersigned by the parent or legal guardian indicating
the home address and telephone number, the purpose of the event, when, where,
and in what manner said minor will be on the streets at night.
   H.   Upon being petitioned by the Board of Trustees, may authorize by
regulation of relaxation of the curfew in other matters of reasonable necessity
and is determined to be consistent with the public interest and the purposes of
this article. Normally, such regulation by the Vici Board of Trustees
permitting use of the streets and/or public places permitted should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate notification of agencies, such as
the schools, the media when appropriate. Such regulation shall define the
activity, the scope of the uses of the streets and/or public places permitted,
the period of time involved, not to extend more than forty five (45) minutes,
beyond the time for termination of this activity.
   I.   When the minor is within the scope of his employment and carries a
certified card or some other form indicating employment, briefly identifying
the minor, the addresses and telephone number of his home and his place of
employment and his hours of employment or carries valid proof of employment.
   J.   Whenever the minor is engaged in interstate or intrastate vehicular
travel with consent of a parent or legal guardian. This contemplates normal
travel and clearly excepts bona fide interstate movement through the Town,
particularly on normal routes. (Ord. 264, 9-5-2006)
6-5A-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, or other person having legal custody of a
minor, knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to allow such minor to be
or remain upon any Town street or public place under circumstances not
constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, the curfew
regulations. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent or legal
guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in that parent's or person's legal custody. It is intended to continue to
keep neglectful or careless parents or legal guardians up to a reasonable
community standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It
shall be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities
or conduct or whereabouts of such minor. (Ord. 264, 9-5-2006)
6-5A-5: POLICE PROCEDURE:
A police officer of the Town, upon finding or having attention called to any
minor on the streets, in prima facie violation of the curfew regulations,
normally shall take the minor to the Town Police Station, or other place
designated by the Chief of Police, where a parent, or legal guardian, shall
immediately be notified to come for such minor, whereupon they may be
questioned about the necessary facts constituting a violation of this article.
In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police
officer on the street shall in the first instance use his best judgment in
determining age. In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Municipal
Court shall cause to be personally delivered or by certified mail sent to a
parent or legal guardian, written notice of said violation with a warning that
any subsequent violation will result in enforcement of parental responsibility
and of applicable penalties. (Ord. 264, 9-5-2006)
6-5A-6: PENALTY:
If after the warning notice pursuant to section
6-5A-5 of this article of a first violation, a minor, a parent or legal
guardian of said minor (in connection with a second violation by said minor),
this shall be treated as an offense by the parent or legal guardian. The
penalty upon a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or a finding of guilt shall be
a fine as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this Code, court costs, and/or term of community service. (Ord. 264,
9-5-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE B. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Definitions
6-5B-2: Furnishing To Under Age Persons
6-5B-3: Purchases By Under Age Persons
6-5B-4: Tobacco Samples Restricted
6-5B-5: Cigarettes Sold In Original, Sealed Package
6-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein:
 
                    Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
                    public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being
                    performed. Indoor Area includes work areas, employee
                    lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
INDOOR AREA:        cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by
                    employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling
                    that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or
                    windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed
                    windows, stairways, or the like.
                    All buildings, Indoor Areas, and Outdoor Areas, including
                    but not limited to recreational areas, and other property,
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: or portions thereof, owned or operated by the town,
                    including but not limited to vehicles and equipment owned
                    by the municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA:       Any area that is not an Indoor Area, and includes outdoor
                    recreational areas.
SMOKING:            The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette,
                    pipe, or other lighted smoking device.
                    Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
                    consumption. Tobacco Product does not include any product
TOBACCO PRODUCT:    approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
                    for sale as a tobacco cessation product. (Ord. 262, 10-4-
                    2004; amd. Ord. 262, 10-5-2020)
 
6-5B-2: FURNISHING TO UNDER AGE PERSONS:
   A.   Prohibition; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any
manner any tobacco product to another person who is under eighteen (18) years
of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such
person.
      2.   It shall not be unlawful for any employee under eighteen (18) years
of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee's duties.
   B.   Demand Proof Of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Violation; Penalty; Defense:
      1.   When a person violates subsection A or B of this section, the Town
shall impose a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of such violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver's license or other government issued photo identification
purporting to be establish that such individual was eighteen (18) years of age
or older, and
         b.   The person cited for violation confirmed the validity of the
driver's license or other government issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person cited
for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture appearing
on the driver's license or other government issued photo identification was
that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection C does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law. (Ord. 262, 10-4-2004)
6-5B-3: PURCHASES BY UNDER AGE PERSONS:
   A.   Prohibition; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who is under eighteen (18) years of
age to purchase, receive, or have in their possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
      2.   It shall not be unlawful for any employee under eighteen (18) years
of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee's duties.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the Town
shall impose a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 262, 10-4-2004)
6-5B-4: TOBACCO SAMPLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Furnishing To Under Age Persons: It is unlawful for any person or
retailer to distribute tobacco products or product samples to any person who is
under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Furnishing On Streets Or In Parks: No person shall distribute tobacco
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons who are under
eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A or B of this section, the
Town shall impose a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 262, 10-4-2004)
6-5B-5: CIGARETTES SOLD IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in
the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the Town
shall impose a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 262, 10-4-2004)
ARTICLE C. GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUME
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Definitions
6-5C-2: Consumption By Minors
6-5C-3: Hosting Or Allowing Gatherings
6-5C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein and shall apply:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
LEGAL GUARDIAN:
   A.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
PARENT: A person who is the natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
PREMISES: Any residence or other private party, place, or premises, including
any commercial or business premises. (Ord. 267, 2-4-2008; amd. 2019 Code)
6-5C-2: CONSUMPTION BY MINORS:
Except as permitted by State law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   A.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public alcoholic
beverage; or
   B.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 267, 2-4-
2008)
6-5C-3: HOSTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS:
   A.   Hosting Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection A1 of this
section.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      2.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members with the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such family gathering intoxicated and is
found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the
same manner as nonfamily gatherings.
      3.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such family gathering intoxicated and is found in public, then said
providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as nonfamily
gathering.
      4.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the State
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 267, 2-4-2008)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code per offense. (Ord. 267, 2-4-2008; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Animals, Fowl At Large
6-6-3: Turning Animals At Large Unlawful
6-6-4: Pasturing In Public Areas Unlawful
6-6-5: Certain Animals Prohibited
6-6-6: Animals Which Disturb Prohibited; Complaints
6-6-7: Buildings For Animals, Construction And Conditions
6-6-8: Indecent Exhibition Of Animals
6-6-9: Kennels, Location
6-6-10: Cleanliness Of Structures
6-6-11: Disposal Of Manure
6-6-12: Inspection By Animal Control Officer
6-6-13: Cruelty To Animals
6-6-14: Violations And Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the owner,
a member of his immediate family over twelve (12) years of age or an agent of
the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or not.
CONFINE: To restrict or impede an animal from intruding onto property which
would violate the provisions of this chapter, by means of fencing, caging,
leashing, tethering, or any other physical obstacles which would limit an
animal's movement on the property.
CONTAIN: To restrict or impede an animal from intruding onto property which
would violate the provisions of this chapter, by means of nonphysical elements
such as training, ailments of the animal, and impairments which would limit an
animal's movement off the property.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
   A.   An animal that, without provocation, has killed or caused severe
physical injury to any person or has killed another animal.
   B.   Dangerous animal does not include a police dog while the police dog is
being used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their
official duties and where an injury inflicted by the police dog was reasonably
related to the duties being performed.
DISEASED ANIMAL: An animal believed to be infected with a dangerous or
communicable disease.
MENACING FASHION: Means that an animal would cause any person observing the
animal to reasonably believe that the animal will cause physical injury to
persons or other animals.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
POSITIVE CONTROL: Personal control of an animal as to be leashed, harnessed,
muzzled, or in such a manner under the supervision of the owner, where the
animal shall not violate the provisions of this chapter.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury resulting in broken bones or lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery.
STRAY: Any animal which is not owned, or known to be owned by any person within
the Municipal limits of the Town.
VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   An animal that, without provocations, has chased or approached in
either a menacing fashion or in an apparent attitude of attack, or has
attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person or another animal while the
animal alleged to be vicious is off the premises of the owner or while the
animal is not physically restrained or confined on the premises.
   B.   Vicious animal does not include a police dog while the police dog is
being used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their
duties.
WITHOUT PROVOCATION: Means that an animal was not teased, tormented or abused;
and also means where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner's
property from criminal activity by a perpetrator of a crime. (Ord. 273, 6-6-
2016; amd. 2019 Code)
6-6-2: ANIMALS, FOWL AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibitions; Owner Responsibility:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or any person entitled to
responsibility of any animal, except domesticated felines, to allow such animal
to intrude upon any property, public or private, other than what is legally
owned or occupied by the owner or tenant of such property.
      2.   The owner, or responsible person in possession of a dog, shall
confine, or contain said animal or animals to property legally owned or leased
by the owner or responsible person.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section shall apply, except when:
      1.   The owner or responsible person must keep animals under positive
control when the animal or animals are not confined or contained to legally
owned or occupied property.
      2.   The owner or responsible person may remove an animal from property
which does not violate the provisions of this chapter whereas the animal is
under constant supervision and control by the owner or responsible person
removing the animal from such property. Property which the owner removes the
animal to may be public streets, alleys, and parks, or private, on the
permission from the owner or tenant of such private property.
      3.   The owner may move animals from legally owned or leased property to
another legally owned or leased property in the same manner. (Ord. 273, 6-6-
2016)
6-6-3: TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal
is confined as required by ordinance or to encourage any animal which is
contained as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly abandon an animal whether
the animal is owned or stray, so to turn the animal at large. (Ord. 273, 6-6-
2016)
6-6-4: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal in any
public school ground or other public property, Federal, State, Town or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-5: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No cattle, swine, potbellied pig, bull or jack shall be kept within the
Town except temporarily in a stockyard awaiting transportation, temporarily at
a slaughterhouse awaiting slaughter, or temporarily for show purposes. The
keeping or maintaining or permitting to be kept or maintained animals in the
Town as prohibited by this section shall be declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   No person may keep, maintain, or harbor more than five (5) animals at
one time on the same premises unless in the case of a veterinary clinic,
licensed kennel, or for temporary purposes as provided in subsection A of this
section. Also excepted are litters, hatchlings, or any infant or adolescent
animals which are not prohibited, and born or hatched from the animal owned by
the person owning, keeping, maintaining, or harboring the parent animal, up to
one year of age.
   C.   The keeping, maintaining, and harboring of vicious, dangerous or
diseased animals within the Town shall be declared unlawful except as may be
permitted in this chapter. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-6: ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED; COMPLAINTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or harbor within the
Town any dog or other animal which habitually barks, howls, yelps, or any cat
which habitually cries or howls, or any fowl which habitually crows, clucks,
squawks, or chirps to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of a
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who have ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs, cats, and fowl
shall be declared a public nuisance.
   B.   Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a dog
which habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or a cat which habitually cries or
howls or any fowl which habitually crows, clucks, squawks, or chirps is being
kept by any person in the Town, the Police Department or the animal control
officer shall notify the owner of such dog or cat or fowl that a complaint has
been received and that person should take whatever steps necessary to alleviate
the howling, yelping, or crying.
   C.   If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a dog, cat, or
fowl as set forth in subsection B of this section is ineffective, then a
verified complaint may be presented to the Police Department or the animal
control officer, alleging that a dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps,
or a cat which habitually cries or howls, or any fowl which habitually crows,
clucks, squawks, or chirps is being kept by any person within the Town. The
Police Department shall inform the owner of such dog or cat or fowl that the
petition has been received and shall cite the owner of the dog or cat or fowl
for violation alleged in the complaint.
   D.   If the Municipal Court finds the party against whom the complaint is
filed guilty of violating the provisions of subsection B of this section, the
court may impose a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first
offense and a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second
and subsequent offenses, plus court costs.
   E.   In the event of more than one conviction involving the same animal, the
court may, in its disposition and in addition to the fines imposed, order the
animal be destroyed in the manner provided by law. The destruction order shall
not be effective until the time for appeal of the conviction shall have lapsed.
Upon appeal being perfected with the appropriate Appellate Court, the
destruction order shall be stayed until the appeal is resolved. (Ord. 273, 6-6-
2016)
6-6-7: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS, CONSTRUCTION AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the Town shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
   B.   Every such building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of any
tenement or apartment, house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and
flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of
manure. The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner
as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered
at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or
refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in the
receptacle. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-8: INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit animals to engage in sexual
intercourse in any place except in enclosed places entirely out of public view.
(Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-9: KENNELS, LOCATION:
   A.   A "kennel", for the purpose of this section, is defined as any
structure housing four (4) or more dogs or cats which are older than six (6)
months of age.
   B.   No kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment, house,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious, or hospital purposes or residence other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animals are
kept. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-10: CLEANLINESS OF STRUCTURES:
Every structure, pen, lot or place wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and
vermin and free from objectionable odors. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-11: DISPOSAL OF MANURE:
Manure shall be hauled outside the Town in a manner which does not jeopardize
the public health, or else be spread evenly upon the ground and turned under at
once or as soon as the weather permits. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-12: INSPECTION BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The animal control officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his own
initiative. The animal control officer may issue any such reasonable order as
may be deemed necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be
kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a
nuisance. The animal control officer may make a complaint before the Municipal
Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this chapter or of
any such reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge the right of
others to make such complaint. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-13: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty: It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to
pour, or apply to, an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the
animal; or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to them or in their custody in a cruel
or inhumane manner.
   B.   Poisoning: It is unlawful for any person wilfully to poison any dog or
other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
   C.   Encouraging To Fight: It is unlawful for any person to instigate or
encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue
or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a
house, pit or other place used for fights between animals. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6-14: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations And Fine: Any person pleading no contest, guilty, or found
guilty by the Municipal Court of an offense in violation of this chapter shall
pay a fine which shall be an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00)
plus court costs, or in another amount stated herein.
   B.   Penalty And Punishment: Any person, firm or corporation who violates
any provision of this chapter, or who violates, refuses or neglects to carry
out any reasonable order made by the police or animal control officer of such,
pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
   C.   Penalty Fees: The Board of Trustees shall assess fees, per the adopted
fee schedule on file in the City Clerk's Office, in accordance with the general
operating costs of handling and sheltering animals. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016; amd.
2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS; RABIES CONTROL OF ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Vaccination Requirements
6-6A-2: Registration, Tag And License
6-6A-3: Rabies Control
6-6A-1: VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The owner of a dog shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a
veterinarian or other authorized person, and shall provide proof upon request
of vaccination and longevity of the vaccination. Rabies vaccinations shall
remain current for each individual animal. In the case of a pup, after it is
six (6) months old, vaccination must be completed.
   B.   The person vaccinating the dog shall furnish the owner a certificate of
vaccination and longevity. In the event the owner of a dog vaccinates the dog
themselves, they must do so in the physical presence of the animal control
officer or a police officer for verification. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6A-2: REGISTRATION, TAG AND LICENSE:
   A.   Discretionary Annual Licensing; Fee: The owner of every dog or cat
herein referred to as "animal" in the Town, may, but is not required to,
annually purchase a license for the animal from the Town. The license fee shall
be as set by the Town and shall be collected as follows: (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016;
amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   The license may be purchased at the price set by the Town within six
(6) months after acquiring the animal, pups and kittens, and annually
thereafter as long as the animal is kept in the Town. If the animal is not a
pup or kitten, the license may be purchased within two (2) weeks of acquiring
the same or within two (2) weeks of moving the animal into the Town; and
      2.   The Town will only license animals with proof of current (within 3
years) rabies vaccination.
   B.   License Tag:
      1.   The Town Clerk shall, upon payment for the license, issue to the
owner a metal tag which may be affixed to the animal's collar. It is the
responsibility of the owner to ensure the identification tag is with the animal
for identification purposes.
      2.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog or cat by applying to the Town
Clerk, presenting the original receipt, and paying a fee set by the Town, of
five dollars ($5.00).
      3.   No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag
issued for a dog or cat as provided in this article, or take from any dog or
cat, a tag legally placed upon it, or place such tag upon a dog or cat or for
which the tag was not specifically issued. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6A-3: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Dogs Muzzled And Cats Confined:
      1.   When the Chief of Police has determined and certifies that a dog, a
cat or other animal in the Town or within five (5) miles of the Town is or was
infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the Town, the
Board of Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when under
positive control of the owner or responsible person, and that access to public
property be restricted, and if deemed desirable, all cats shall be confined
during a period of time to be determined by the Board of Trustees. Such
resolution or an adequate notice of its passage shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Town and shall go into effect on
the date following such publication unless the resolution prescribes a later
time.
      2.   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution,
or for any such dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof.
   B.   Confinement Of Rabid Animals: Any dog or other animal which is
suspected of having rabies, or any dog or other animal which has bitten a
person and caused an abrasion of the skin of the person, shall be confined by
the Police Department as follows:
      1.   If the dog or other animal has been properly vaccinated and can be
verified, likewise being licensed, the Police Department shall confine the
animal, isolated from the public, for a period of ten (10) days or for any term
designated by the State Department of Health, at the owner's expense;
      2.   If the dog or other animal is not or cannot be verified as
vaccinated, the animal shall be seized and confined in the animal shelter or
veterinary clinic, and such confinement shall be for a period of ten (10) days
or for any term designated by the State Department of Health. The fee for
confinement shall be paid in advance by the owner of the dog or other animal if
confined at a veterinary clinic; and
      3.   If the owner of the dog or other animal refuses to confine the dog
under the applicable subsections of this section, the dog shall be ordered
confined or destroyed by the appropriate officer of the Town. Any animal
ordered destroyed shall be terminated by the animal control officer, certified
to complete such termination, and the animal's head shall be furnished to the
State Department of Health for rabies observation.
   C.   Killing Of Rabid Dog: Any person may kill an animal when the appearance
or conduct of which is such as would cause an ordinarily prudent person to be
afflicted with rabies. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
ARTICLE B. ANIMAL POUND
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Pound Established
6-6B-2: Impoundment And Sale Of Animals
6-6B-3: Breaking Of Pound
6-6B-4: Contract For Pound Operation
6-6B-1: POUND ESTABLISHED:
A Town Pound is hereby established to be under the immediate control of the
officer hereinafter authorized by this section. A pound officer shall be
appointed by the Chief of Police, subject to confirmation by the Board of
Trustees, and the pound shall be under the immediate control and supervision of
the Police Department. The pound officer shall be specifically directed in
their duties by the Chief of Police who shall be in control of the pound. The
pound officer shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and
shall treat them in a humane manner. The Town may contract with another agency
for the use of a pound maintained by such agency, if such should exist within
the Town. The pound officer may also serve as the animal control officer. (Ord.
273, 6-6-2016)
6-6B-2: IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It is the duty of the police or any animal control officer to take into
their possession any animal that may be in violation of this chapter, running
at large upon the streets, curbing, alleys, public places, or trespassing upon
the lands of any person within the corporate limits of the Town, and impound
such animals. An animal impounded by virtue of this article shall be released
to the owner or person entitled to take possession thereof upon payment of the
impoundment fee. Animals with proof of rabies vaccination with or on the animal
will be held at the Municipal Pound, while animals with no proof of rabies
vaccination will be held at the closest contracted animal shelter. A fee will
be assessed for the relocation of an unvaccinated animal to the contracted
shelter, and will apply to the release cost of the animal.
   B.   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this article does not procure the release of such animal within
twenty four (24) hours after impoundment, the police or animal control officer
shall post a photograph and description of the animal in the Town Clerk's
Office, which shall describe the color, sex, and approximate size of the animal
impounded and shall state that the animal will be sold, or otherwise disposed
of, unless it is released from impoundment on a date not less than five (5)
days from the date of notice or description is posted in the Town Clerk's
Office.
   C.   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this section is known to the officer, the police or animal
control officer shall notify him/her in writing or by telephone, that the
animal will be sold or otherwise disposed of unless the owner or entitled
person releases such animal from impoundment. If such animal is not released
from impoundment by the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof
prior to such date, five (5) days from the date notified, the police may sell,
adopt, or dispose of the animal. If the animal is sold, it will be to the
highest bidder and the buyer thereafter shall have complete title to such
animal, or may cause the animal to be destroyed.
   D.   There shall be taken from the proceeds of the sale of animals sold
under this section, the cost of publishing the notice of sale. The residue
shall be paid into the Office of the Town Clerk and placed to the credit of the
General Fund. The Town will not vaccinate, neuter or spay, nor shall the Town
accept an animal for purchase or return once the animal has been sold.
   E.   Only authorized police or the animal control officer may catch and
deliver to the public pound any animal at large or in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6B-3: BREAKING OF POUND:
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or let out any animal
therefrom;
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the Town any
animal taken into custody as provided by this article; or
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of their duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this article. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6B-4: CONTRACT FOR POUND OPERATION:
The Board of Trustees is authorized to join into a cooperative effort with the
County or any other community in the County or surrounding counties for the
purpose of establishing, operating and maintaining a pound for animals running
in violation of this chapter. Contracted pounds or shelters will have fees
assessed with the transport and impoundment at that facility. (Ord. 273, 6-6-
2016)
ARTICLE C. VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-6C-1: Vicious Animals
6-6C-2: Confinement Of Biting Animal
6-6C-3: Hearing Before Municipal Judge
6-6C-4: Determination By Municipal Judge
6-6C-5: Appeal To District Court
6-6C-1: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when
the dog, without undue provocation, bites or attempts to bite or attack such
person or another in such a manner that an ordinarily prudent person would be
led to believe that the person toward whom the efforts of the dog are directed
is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of subsection
6-6-5C of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day a vicious dog is kept, maintained, or allowed by
any person, firm, corporation, or any combination thereof, within the corporate
limits of the Town, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6C-2: CONFINEMENT OF BITING ANIMAL:
Any dog or other animal which has or is suspected of having attacked, or any
dog or other animal which has bitten a person and caused severe injury to the
person, or injuries resulting in the death of another animal, shall be confined
by the Police Department, as follows:
   A.   If the dog or other animal has been properly vaccinated and can be
verified, likewise being licensed, the Police Department shall confine the
animal, isolated from the public, for a period of ten (10) days, awaiting
hearing and determination of the Municipal Judge, at the owner's expense.
   B.   If the dog or other animal has not been properly vaccinated or is not
known to be vaccinated, the Police Department shall confine the animal,
isolated from the public, for a period of five (5) days, and if within such
time, the animal displays signs of rabies or other communicable diseases, the
Police Department shall surrender to a veterinary clinic where the animal will
be destroyed and the head will be sent to the State Department of Health for
examination. If the animal displays no signs of rabies, or other communicable
diseases, the Police Department shall confine the animal for ten (10) days,
awaiting hearing and determination of the Municipal Judge, at the owner's
expense.
   C.   If the owner of the dog or other animal refuses to surrender the dog
under the applicable subsections of this section, the dog shall be ordered
destroyed by the appropriate officer of the Town. Any animal ordered destroyed
shall be terminated by the animal control officer, certified to complete such
termination, and the animal's head shall be furnished to the State Department
of Health for rabies observation. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6C-3: HEARING BEFORE MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The Municipal Judge, in addition to any hearings which may be required on
criminal charges, shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of
impoundment to determine if the animal is vicious, dangerous or diseased as
defined by this chapter. The hearing may be held in conjunction with any
criminal proceedings if so ordered by the Judge, but in no event shall this
delay the hearing on determination of viciousness. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6C-4: DETERMINATION BY MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of the following
determinations as a result of the hearing:
   A.   Surrender To Owner: That the animal is in fact not vicious, dangerous,
or diseased, in which event the animal control officer shall cause it to be
surrendered to the owner of the animal, upon payment of the owner of the
expenses outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Destruction Of Animal: That the animal is in fact vicious, dangerous,
or diseased and should be destroyed.
   C.   Nondestruction Of Animal; Conditions: That the animal is vicious,
dangerous, or diseased but that for good cause shown, the animal should not be
destroyed, in which event the Judge shall order one of the following:
      1.   Removal From Town: That the animal be immediately removed from the
corporate limits of Vici and not to ever again be allowed within the corporate
limits of Vici, and that the owner pay all fees required by this chapter.
      2.   Maintain Within Town; Compliance With Conditions: That the owner be
allowed to maintain the vicious animal within the corporate limits of Vici
under the following conditions:
         a.   Pay Fees: Payment of all fees required of this chapter.
         b.   Leash And Muzzle: No person shall permit an animal covered by
this section to be outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four feet (4') in length. No person shall
permit such animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside
its kennel or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such
animal may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings,
etc. In addition, all animals on a leash outside the animal's kennel must be
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such animal from biting
persons or other animals.
         c.   Confinement: All animals covered by this section shall be
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel,
except when leashed and muzzled as provided in subsection C2b of this section.
Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached
to the sides. All structures used to confine such animal must be locked with a
key or combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such
structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen
or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet
(2'), unless in concrete. All structures erected to house such animals must
comply with all zoning and building regulations of the Town as set forth
herein. All such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated, and kept
in a clean and sanitary condition as set forth herein. All such structures
built to confine such animals will be constructed within a separate enclosure
which would prevent any persons of the public or passers-by from having contact
with the animal enclosed.
         d.   Confinement Indoors: No animal covered by this section may be
kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow
the animal to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such
animal may be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when
screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the animal from exiting the
structure. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
         e.   Signs: All owners, keepers, or harborers of animals covered by
this section within the Town shall display in a prominent place, on each
boundary line of their premises, a sign easily readable by the public stating
"Beware of Vicious Animal", or similar wording, with no less than four (4)
signs on the premises. In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on
the kennel or pen of such animal. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016; amd. 2019 Code)
         f.   Insurance: All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered by
this section within the Town shall provide home insurance coverage of the
animal with no less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) of coverage
for medical or damage.
         g.   Registration: All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered
by this section within the Town shall be required to register the animal with
the Town Clerk and the Police Department. Registration must be completed prior
to the animal being kept or harbored within the Town and will provide proof and
inspection by the Police Department or animal control officer of all conditions
of keeping or harboring the animal covered by this section. Registration of the
animal must be completed annually, not to elapse past the final judgment of the
Municipal Judge. The Town Clerk, upon completion of registration and fee
collection, shall issue a metal tag to the owner, keeper, or harborer of such
animal. The tag shall be kept on the animal's collar or harness at all times.
(Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6C-5: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
Any owner whose animal is adjudged to be vicious at hearing and sentence is
imposed by the Municipal Judge pursuant to this section, upon written demand,
may appeal the Judge's decision within ten (10) days to the District Court of
the County where a trial in the District Court shall be accorded them de novo.
(Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
ARTICLE D. ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; AUTHORITY, DUTIES
SECTION:
6-6D-1: Appointment; Duties
6-6D-2: Qualifications
6-6D-3: Equipment And Training
6-6D-4: Reports Of Shootings
6-6D-5: Authority To Enforce Rules
6-6D-6: Issuance Of Summons And Citations
6-6D-1: APPOINTMENT; DUTIES:
   A.   The Town shall have an animal control officer who is an employee of the
Town under the administrative supervision of the Police Department.
   B.   The animal control officer shall have and possess such duties and
responsibilities and such powers as granted by this chapter, and such
additional powers and authority as may be otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 273,
6-6-2016)
6-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The position of animal control officer shall be filled by any qualified
applicant, and the appointment shall be based on qualifications, training and
experience in the handling of animals and other essential qualifications
regarding supervisory ability, care and maintenance or records and equipment,
and such other guidelines established by the Town Board of Trustees in the
care, handling, and humane treatment of animals. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6D-3: EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING:
The animal control officer may have in his possession for the uses and purposes
in carrying out the ordinances and laws of the Town, the items set out in
subsections A through E of this section. It is required that all employees of
the Police Department be fully trained and periodically tested in the use of
all authorized equipment, as follows, consistently with current administrative
policy and State laws:
   A.   12-gauge shotgun and ammunition of a type approved by the Police Chief.
   B.   Tranquilizer guns with assorted darts and propellants.
   C.   Deterrent sprays.
   D   Tools essential to the humane treatment or control of offending animals,
such as traps, airtight containers, leashes, muzzles, shackles, prods, and
other devices in this category of tools normally used to control animals.
   E.   One (1) .22-caliber long rifle and ammunition of a type approved by the
Police Chief. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6D-4: REPORTS OF SHOOTINGS:
The discharge of any device capable of inflicting injury or death to either
humans or animals, or capable of causing property damage, by the animal control
officer, will be documented in a report and placed on file in the Police
Department, with a copy of the report provided to the Chief of Police. (Ord.
273, 6-6-2016)
6-6D-5: AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE RULES:
   A.   The animal control officer is authorized to enforce rules and
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter and
other laws and policies approved by the Board of Trustees for the enforcement
and administration of such ordinances, law and policy.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, upon receipt of the
verified complaint as outlined in this chapter, to cause the animal involved to
be impounded pending a determination as required by this chapter.
   C.   Any and all expenses associated with the impounding including shelter,
food, handling, transportation, arrangements, damages, observations, and
veterinary care shall be borne by the owner of such animal during the period of
impoundment. (Ord. 273, 6-6-2016)
6-6D-6: ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS AND CITATIONS:
   A.   The animal control officer shall have the power to issue summons and
citations for violations of ordinances relating to animal control.
   B.   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or acts
made unlawfully by this chapter have been committed may sign a complaint
against the alleged violator.
   C.   Any police officer, animal control officer or Code Enforcement Officer
who is employed by the Town is authorized to issue a summons and complaint when
the officer personally observes a violation of this chapter.
   D.   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer receiving
the complaint containing the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident;
      2.   Date, time and location of the incident;
      3.   Description of the animal;
      4.   Name, address and telephone number (if known) of the animal's owner;
      5.   A statement that the animal attacked the complainant or some other
person or animal as witnessed by the complainant, or such facts as warrant a
finding that the animal has violated the provisions of this chapter, or is
vicious, dangerous, or diseased;
      6.   Other facts and circumstances of the incident or violation. (Ord.
273, 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Policy
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Unlawful Practices
6-7-4: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
6-7-5: Financing Of Housing
6-7-6: Brokerage Services
6-7-7: Exemptions
6-7-8: Administration
6-7-9: Education And Conciliation
6-7-10: Enforcement; Complaints
6-7-11: Investigations; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
6-7-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
6-7-13: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
6-7-14: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
6-7-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the Town to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the Town. (2008 Code § 5-601)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
6-7-4 through
6-7-6 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (2008 Code §
5-602)
6-7-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
6-7-7 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: All dwellings, except as exempted by
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Exemptions: Nothing in section
6-7-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided:
         a.   That such private individual owner does not own more than three
(3) such single-family houses at any one time;
         b.   That in the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
         c.   That such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family houses at
any one time;
         d.   That the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
            (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or
person; and
            (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
6-7-4C of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   Business Of Selling Or Renting Dwellings: For the purposes of
subsection B of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of
selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein;
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (2008 Code § 5-603)
6-7-4: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
6-7-3 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection
6-7-3B and section
6-7-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, age, color, religion,
national origin, disability, or familial status.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, age, color,
religion, national original, disability, or familial status.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, gender, age, color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial
status or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, gender, age, color,
religion, national origin, disability, or familial status that any dwelling is
not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, gender, age,
color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status. (2008 Code §
5-604; amd. 2019 Code)
6-7-5: FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or their financial
assistance, because of the race, gender, age, color, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given:
provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection
6-7-3B of this chapter. (2008 Code § 5-605; amd. 2019 Code)
6-7-6: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, gender, age, color, religion, national origin, disability, or
familial status. (2008 Code § 5-606; amd. 2019 Code)
6-7-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, gender, age, color, national origin,
disability or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which, as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (2008 Code §
5-607; amd. 2019 Code)
6-7-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the Town.
   B.   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board for
the Town. (2008 Code § 5-608)
6-7-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (2008 Code § 5-609)
6-7-10: ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint: Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably
injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter
"person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in
such form as the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a
complaint, the Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the
person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of
reference under subsection C of this section, the Chief Executive Officer shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he intends to resolve it. If the Chief Executive Officer decides to
resolve the complaint, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the
alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make public
any information in violation of this provision shall be (upon conviction)
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing; Contents Of Written Complaint: A complaint under
subsection A of this section shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   Filing Complaint With Secretary Of HUD: If within thirty (30) days
after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   D.   Civil Action: If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person
aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, commence a civil action in
any appropriate court, against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce
the rights granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate
to the subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory
housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the
respondent from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as
may be appropriate.
   E.   Burden Of Proof On Complainant: In any proceeding brought pursuant to
this section, the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Trial; Terminate Efforts For Voluntary Compliance: Whenever an action
filed by an individual shall come to trial, the Chief Executive Officer shall
immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance. (2008 Code §
5-610)
6-7-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   Conduct Of Investigations: In conducting an investigation, the Chief
Executive Officer shall have access at all reasonable times to premises,
records, documents, individuals, and other evidence or possible sources of
evidence and may examine, record, and copy such materials and take and record
the testimony or statements of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the
furtherance of the investigation; provided however, that the Chief Executive
Officer first complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to
unreasonable searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue
subpoenas to compel his access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Issuance Of Subpoenas: Upon written application to the Chief Executive
Officer, a respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number
of subpoenas by and in the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same
extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief
Executive Officer himself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent
shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall
state that they were issued at his request.
   C.   Witness And Mileage Fees: Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief
Executive Officer shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are
witnesses in proceedings in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a
witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be
paid by him.
   D.   Petition To Revoke Or Modify Subpoena: Within five (5) days after
services of a subpoena upon any person, such person may petition the Chief
Executive Officer to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer
shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   Refusal To Obey Subpoena: In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena, the Chief Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was
issued may petition for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the
district in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was
served, or transacts business.
   F.   Violations; Penalty: Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to
attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records,
documents, or other evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the
subpoena or lawful order of the Chief Executive Officer shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Chief
Executive Officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the
Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall
wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct
entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall
wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary
evidence, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   G.   Litigation By Town Attorney: The Town Attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the Chief Executive Officer participates as a party or as
amicus pursuant to this chapter. (2008 Code § 5-611)
6-7-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Civil Action: The rights granted by sections
6-7-3 through
6-7-6 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in State or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred:
provided however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection
6-7-10D of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are
likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing
practice complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided however,
that any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any
court order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona
fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the existence
of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this
chapter shall not be affected.
   B.   Decision Of Court: The court may grant as relief, as it deems
appropriate, any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining
order, or other order, and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and
punitive damages as provided by law, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff. Provided, that the
plaintiff, in the opinion of the court, is not financially able to assume the
attorney fees. (2008 Code § 5-612)
6-7-13: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of, his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
6-7-3 through
6-7-6 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (2008 Code § 5-613)
6-7-14: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, gender, age, color, religion, national
origin, disability, or familial status and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings.
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
age, color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status, in any
of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
subsection A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, gender, age, color,
religion, national origin, disability, or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 5-614; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
7-1-2: Application Of Regulations
7-1-3: Insurance Or Certificate Required
7-1-4: Accidents
7-1-5: Vehicle Equipment Generally
7-1-6: Truck Routes; Vehicle Size And Weight Restrictions
7-1-7: Securing Loads
7-1-8: Inspection Of Vehicles By Officers
7-1-9: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
7-1-10: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
7-1-11: Unlawful Riding
7-1-12: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations
7-1-13: Pushcarts, Animals And Animal Drawn Vehicles
7-1-14: Maintenance And Construction Zones
7-1-15: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-1-16: Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Fire Hose
7-1-17: Duty Of Police And Firefighters
7-1-18: Eluding Police Officer
7-1-19: Traffic Citations
7-1-20: Penalty For Violations
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
101 et seq., and the Rules of the Road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-101 et
seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the Town within the Town limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. (2008 Code § 15-126)
7-1-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to every street, highway, alley,
roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, and every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the Town, the use of which the Town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use.
   B.   Those upon land owned by the Town.
   C.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the Town.
   D.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the Town. (2008 Code § 15-102)
7-1-3: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State and operating the
vehicle within the Town's boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the Federal or State government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self- insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
    COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this State as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes article VI, chapter 7, and section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503 having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the State Board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
Compulsory Insurance Law of the State of Oklahoma.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this State shall, while
operating or using such vehicle within the Town's boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (2008 Code § 15-127)
7-1-4: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Drivers Involved In Accidents:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall, upon
request, exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
      2.   a. The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident
to a police officer or to the Police Department.
         b.   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
Office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with State law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: Any person failing to stop or to comply
with any of the requirements of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 15-118)
7-1-5: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the Town shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the Town which is not equipped as
required by law;
   B.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   C.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street
in the Town. (2008 Code § 15-103)
7-1-6: TRUCK ROUTES; VEHICLE SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Designate Truck Routes: The Board of Trustees, by motion
or resolution, may prescribe routes through the Town for the use of trucks in
general, or trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the Town.
   B.   Weight Restriction: No vehicle weighing more than forty thousand
(40,000) pounds shall be operated upon the streets, alleys and other public
ways within the Town, except as provided in this section.
   C.   Truck Routes Established: The Board of Trustees may prescribe
northbound traffic on Houser Street from Highway 60, southbound traffic on
Houser Street from Highway 34 and CR208, westbound traffic on 8th Street to
Houser Street, eastbound traffic on 8th Street from Houser Street to Highway
34, northbound traffic on Wells Street to Highway 60, and southbound traffic on
Wells Street to Highway 60 as routes through the Town for the use of through
trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are
not ordinary private passenger vehicles or local grain trucks passing through
the Town.
   D.   Signs:
      1.   The Town shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are placed
along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
      2.   When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of the truck
or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed as provided above, while
passing through the Town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate
therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow
such routes so far as practicable also when driving within the Town and not
merely through the Town.
   E.   Semi-Trucks: With the exception of U.S. Highways 34 and 60 and
designated truck routes, it is unlawful for any person to drive or transport in
any way a semi-truck (tractor), with or without a semi-transport (trailer)
attached, within the Town limits with the exception of State, County, or Town
maintenance and emergency vehicles, passenger buses, residential moving,
commercial businesses located in buildings in which someone resides, and local
deliveries within the Town. Also exempt are persons whose current and legal
address as property owners whose property is located within the Town limits.
      1.   Property owners shall operate vehicles to the owned property from a
designated route, and from the owned property to a truck route without a semi-
transport (trailer).
      2.   These vehicles shall be used to perform work within the area of the
public way and that no other reasonable access exists; or
      3.   The vehicle shall be used to deliver goods or merchandise to some
area served by the public way.
   F.   Sponsored Town Activities Exempt: This section shall not apply to
sponsored activities of the Town, the Vici Chamber of Commerce, or the Vici
school system. (Ord. 274, 6-15-2016)
7-1-7: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products, but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom. (2008 Code § 15-105)
7-1-8: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS:
Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the streets
of the Town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is properly
equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair. (2008
Code § 15-106)
7-1-9: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (2008 Code § 15-107)
7-1-10: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (2008 Code § 15-108)
7-1-11: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This section shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck
bodies in space intended for merchandise. (2008 Code § 15-109)
7-1-12: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this title.
   B.   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this title.
(2008 Code § 15-110)
7-1-13: PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(2008 Code § 15-111)
7-1-14: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets:
      1.   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the Town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving,
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction.
      2.   In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   Driving Restrictions:
      1.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection B shall not apply to persons while
engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to persons entering
therein for the protection of lives or property.
      3.   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   C.   Construction Under Traffic:
      1.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees,
personnel, or contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic
control devices to warn and guide the public.
      2.   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen, or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (2008 Code § 15-112)
7-1-15: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Drivers Of Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The provisions of this title shall not apply to a driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in
the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to
but not upon returning from a fire alarm.
      2.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle, while in motion, sounds
audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle; except, that
an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      3.   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2008 Code § 15-113)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this State,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (2008 Code § 15-114)
7-1-16: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than on official
business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(2008 Code § 15-115)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command. (2008 Code § 15-116)
7-1-17: DUTY OF POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Police Department: The Police Department shall have the power to
enforce the street traffic regulations of the Town and all of the State Vehicle
Laws applicable to street traffic in the Town, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the
Town in the administration of the Traffic Laws and in developing ways and means
to improve traffic conditions.
   B.   Fire Department: Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of
a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
there or in the immediate vicinity. (2008 Code § 15-117)
7-1-18: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or
audible signal directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall
wilfully increase his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner
attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer.
   B.   A visual or audible signal, for the purpose of this section, means a
red light and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle
with insignia showing the same to be an official police, Sheriff, or highway
patrol car. (2008 Code § 15-125)
7-1-19: TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Issuance:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tag in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provision of this title.
      2.   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      3.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection A shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      5.   The Town Board of Trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(2008 Code § 15-119)
   B.   Failure To Obey: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate his written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of
a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
citation was originally issued. (2008 Code § 15-120)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Parking Citations:
      1.   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking
under the Traffic Laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period as specified on the
citation, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the
violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a
period as specified, a warrant of arrest may be issued.
      2.   On any occasion where two (2) or more such traffic citations have
been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this subsection C. (2008 Code § 15-121)
   D.   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citation: It is unlawful for any person
to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner
other than is provided by the Town. (2008 Code § 15-122)
   E.   Disposition And Records Of Citations, Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the Motor Vehicle Laws of this State or any
Traffic Law of the Town, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the Municipal Court.
      2.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a Judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      3.   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      4.   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required by the Town. (2008
Code § 15-123)
   F.   Court Records; Abstract Sent To State:
      1.   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      3.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator's license, the registration number of the
vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea, the
judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(2008 Code § 15-124)
7-1-20: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Violations: Any violations of the provisions of this title shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 15-601)
   B.   Speed In School Zones: Any violation of subsection
7-2-3C of this title within school zones shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than two (2) times the fine for the violated ordinance in an area not
designated as a school zone, provided in any such case, said fine shall not
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 254, 8-5-2002)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Operation Of Vehicles Generally
7-2-2: Licensing Requirements; Vehicle Inspection Sticker
7-2-3: Speeding Regulations
7-2-4: Starting Parked Vehicle
7-2-5: Drive On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
7-2-6: Right-Of-Way At Intersections
7-2-7: Reckless Driving
7-2-8: Driving While Impaired Or Under The Influence
7-2-9: Driving On Sidewalk
7-2-10: Limitations On Backing
7-2-11: Corner Cutting
7-2-12: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
7-2-1: OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY:
Every person operating a vehicle in the Town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
Town and State, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others. (2008 Code § 15-201)
7-2-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; VEHICLE INSPECTION STICKER:
   A.   Driver's License: It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver's license as required by State law for operation of a vehicle upon the
State highways, to operate a motor vehicle within the Town, or to operate a
motor vehicle within the Town in violation of any restriction applied to the
driver's license. (2008 Code § 15-202)
   B.   Vehicle License: No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the
streets of the Town any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer is licensed as required by State law and the
license is conspicuously displayed thereon. (2008 Code § 15-203)
   C.   Unlicensed Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to park any motor
vehicle not bearing a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street
or highway within the Town. (2008 Code § 15-204)
   D.   Motor Carries; Scope Of Activities; Movement Of Oversize And Overweight
Vehicles; Permits; Saddle Mounts; Exemptions: It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to violate any of the provisions of Title 47, sections 14-
118 of the Oklahoma State statutes. (Res. 6-21, 6-7-2021)
7-2-3: SPEEDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Rule:
      1.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of subsection A1 of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions. (2008 Code § 15-220)
   B.   General Maximum Speed Limit:
      1.   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this title,
shall be driven at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour upon
any street within the Town.
      2.   The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof. (2008 Code § 15-221)
   C.   School Zones:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of twenty five
(25) miles per hour between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., inclusive, over or upon any portion of the public streets
which have been duly marked as a school zone on shutter type school speed
limits traffic signs which are open and showing the words "School-Speed Limit
25" unless the public schools of the Town are not in session on that date, in
which event, the regular posted speed limit for the area shall apply.
      2.   The area of the reduced speed school zone shall begin at the
location of the opened school zone speed limit sign facing traffic and shall
end at the location of the school zone speed limit sign facing traffic coming
from the opposite direction, and/or the right side of the same street, marked
"End Zone". In any event, the area of the reduced speed school zone shall only
include the area between First Street through Fifth Street and Holmes Street
through Jones Street, in the Town.
      3.   Every person violating this subsection C shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than two (2) times the fine for a minimum speeding violation in an area
not designated as a school zone and not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). (Ord. 253, 2-5-2001)
   D.   Maintenance Or Construction Zones:
      1.   For purposes of this section, "maintenance or construction zone"
means any location where maintenance or construction work is actually in
progress and workers present.
      2.   Where any Municipal street shall be under construction or repair or
a detour shall have been designated by reason of construction or repairs in
progress and the Town Chief of Police shall have determined a maximum safe,
careful, and prudent speed on the Municipal street or detour during the period
of construction or repairs and shall have plainly posted at each terminus
thereof and at not less than each half mile along the route thereof the
determined maximum speed, no person shall drive any vehicle upon the portion of
the Municipal street or upon the detour at a speed in excess of the speed so
determined and posted.
      3.   Violation of the posted speed limit in the maintenance or
construction zone shall result in the doubling of the appropriate fine.
      4.   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of subsection
D2 of this section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the
Chief of Police and the existence of the signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety as provided
in subsection D2 of this section. (Ord. 255, 9-3-2002)
7-2-4: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety. (2008 Code § 15-206)
7-2-5: DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (2008 Code § 15-207)
7-2-6: RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Right-Of-Way Generally: The driver of a vehicle approaching an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different street; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on
a street which is not a State or Federal highway approaching an intersection
with a State or Federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right. (2008 Code § 15-208)
   B.   Vehicle Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded
and having given a signal when and as required by this title, may make such
left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
from such opposite direction shall yield the right- of-way to the vehicle
making the left turn. (2008 Code § 15-209)
7-2-7: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the Town. Reckless driving
shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous
rate of speed. (2008 Code § 15-210)
7-2-8: DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the Town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable
of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within the Town. The
fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has been
lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection. (2008 Code § 15-211)
7-2-9: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (2008 Code § 15-212)
7-2-10: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (2008
Code § 15-213)
7-2-11: CORNER CUTTING:
No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any parking
facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the services
offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking facility. No
person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across any parking
facility for the purpose of shortening his travel distance, avoiding a traffic
control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or turning a vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from which it entered the
drive. (2008 Code § 15-214)
7-2-12: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (2008 Code § 15-215)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Parking Prohibited In Certain Places
7-3-2: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-3-3: Obstructing Traffic Or Signs
7-3-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
7-3-5: Parking More Than Seventy Two Hours
7-3-6: Parking On Left Side Of Roadway
7-3-7: Parking On Private Property; Impounding Vehicle
7-3-8: Unattended Vehicle
7-3-9: Authority To Restrict Parking Time And Prohibit Parking
7-3-10: Parking In Private Parking Spaces Without Permission Of Owner
7-3-11: Parking Within Fire Lanes On Certain Private Property
7-3-12: Limiting Parking To Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-3-13: Manner Of Parking
7-3-14: Presumption In Prosecutions For Parking Violations
7-3-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   Prohibited Areas: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except
when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or ordinances or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device,
in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection except in
a parking space officially marked;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the Town indicates the different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station or, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway underpass;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking; and
      15.   At any other place prohibited by this Code or law.
   B.   Unlawfully Moving Vehicle: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is lawful. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-2: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   No person shall be permitted to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space that is designated and posted as a reserved area for parking of
motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such vehicle is eligible
for a detachable insignia of a physically disabled person issued by the State
Department of Public Safety as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112,
as amended, and such insignia is displayed as provided in accordance with State
law or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply to any such designated and
posted reserved area on public property or private property accessible to the
public and where the public is invited.
   C.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, subject to the maximum penalty allowed by State law. In
addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay any and all reasonable and
necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other person in having any motor
vehicle unlawfully parked hereunder removed from the property and stored. (Ord.
257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR SIGNS:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to prohibit the free movement of authorized
vehicles or vehicular traffic.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   C.   No person shall at any time stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device or in case of
emergency within any alley except for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise, with the maximum time permitted for
loading or unloading being one hour; however, such vehicle must be headed in
the proper direction in the alley and it must be parked on the right half of
one-way alleys.
   D.   Any vehicle parked upon the public streets or right-of-way shall be
parked so as not to obstruct the view of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal by oncoming traffic. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park his vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal
purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise;
   C.   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency; and
   D.   Selling merchandise or any other thing from vehicles without an
appropriate permit or license from the Town. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-5: PARKING MORE THAN SEVENTY TWO HOURS:
No vehicle may be parked on a Town or State road or highway for more than
seventy two (72) hours. Such vehicles will be given a notice that the vehicle
must be removed or it will be removed by agents of the Town as provided in this
Code. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-6: PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Town personnel, subject to direction of the Board of Trustees, may
determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of
any one-way roadway and to have signs or marks placed giving notice thereof.
   B.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs or marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. (Ord. 257, 3-3-
2003)
7-3-7: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; IMPOUNDING VEHICLE:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle on the private property of another
without the consent of the owner of the property, his agent or tenant.
   B.   Any unoccupied vehicle parked in violation of this section may, upon
complaint of the property owner, his agent or tenant, be removed and impounded
by the police; and the vehicle owner must pay removal, storage and impounding
fees. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-8: UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively setting the brake
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the curb
or side of the street. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-9: AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT PARKING TIME AND PROHIBIT PARKING:
   A.   The Town Board of Trustees, by resolution, may establish parking time
limits or prohibit parking on designated streets by having appropriate signs
placed thereon.
   B.   When such signs are in place, no person shall park a vehicle in
violation thereof. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-10: PARKING IN PRIVATE PARKING SPACES WITHOUT PERMISSION OF OWNER:
   A.   The parking, leaving or keeping of vehicles, either with or without
occupants, upon real property owned or leased for use of hotels or business
establishments as private parking places, without permission of the owner or
lessee, as the case may be, is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Any vehicle parked or left in violation of subsection A of this section
shall, upon the complaint of the owner or lessee of the property, be removed
from the premises by the police or on the order of any police officer, at the
expense of the owner of the vehicle. Such removal may be accomplished by the
Police Department or by a Police Department order directing any person
operating a towing service to pull the vehicle to his garage or place of
business, where it shall be held in the custody of the Police Department until
the towing charges and the fine and costs, if any, are paid. (Ord. 257, 3-3-
2003)
7-3-11: PARKING WITHIN FIRE LANES OR ON CERTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Town personnel, when the public safety shall require, is authorized and
directed to prohibit parking upon private property used for shopping centers,
schools, hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants and places of public
entertainment within zones to be clearly designated and defined by appropriate
sign, when the same is necessary for the establishment of fire lanes to avoid
obstruction of free passage and access.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except an authorized
emergency vehicle, within such prohibited fire lanes, except on direction and
by authority of a police officer. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-12: LIMITING PARKING TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Town personnel, subject to any directions which the Town Board of Trustees may
give, is authorized to designate streets or portions thereof where parking is
limited to authorized emergency vehicles. When signs are in place giving notice
of such limitation, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle,
except an authorized emergency vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-13: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
every vehicle stopped or parked upon roadway where there are adjacent curbs
shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle
parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Every
vehicle stopped and parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where
there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels
parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb.
   B.   Brakes Set; Motor Turned Off; Securing Animals:
      1.   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
      2.   No driver of a motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor
running while parked.
      3.   Animals left or parked on the streets shall be securely hitched.
   C.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Town personnel, subject to direction of the Board of Trustees, may
determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking will be
permitted, and authority shall continue until changed permitting angle parking
on any such street or part of street and the angle parking markings or signs
are amended.
      2.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
      3.   Angle parking is not permitted on any State or Federal aid highway
unless the State Department of Transportation has determined that the roadway
is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the
free movement of traffic.
   D.   Parking Within Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
it within a parking space as thus marked off and not on or over a line
delineating a space.
   E.   Parking To Leave Ten Feet Of Roadway Available For Traffic: No person
shall park a vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   F.   Double Parking Prohibited:
      1.   No vehicle shall be double parked on any street within the Town
limits except in compliance with the direction of a police officer, or traffic
control device, or except when necessary to avoid conflict with another
vehicle.
      2.   Delivery vehicles, either loading or unloading, may double park in
the right hand lane while in the process of loading or unloading and making
delivery to local business establishments; provided, that the driver of the
delivery vehicle shall keep a lookout for cars and vehicles needing or
attempting to move away from the curb and shall move his delivery vehicle as
soon as possible to permit the parked vehicles to be moved. Such double parking
shall be permitted only so long as both traffic lanes are not blocked. (Ord.
257, 3-3-2003)
7-3-14: PRESUMPTION IN PROSECUTIONS FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS:
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
of such violation, the registered owner of such vehicle shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred. (Ord. 257, 3-3-2003)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Obedience To Devices
7-4-2: Necessity Of Signs
7-4-3: Interference With Devices, Signs Or Signals
7-4-4: Presumption Of Legality
7-4-5: Ratification Of Existing Devices
7-4-6: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-4-7: Flashing Signals
7-4-8: Driving Within Traffic Lanes
7-4-9: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-4-10: Through Streets
7-4-11: Stop And Yield Signs
7-4-1: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this title unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (2008 Code § 15-301)
7-4-2: NECESSITY OF SIGNS:
No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (2008 Code § 15-302)
7-4-3: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (2008 Code § 15-303)
7-4-4: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY:
   A.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (2008
Code § 15-304)
7-4-5: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES:
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the effective date hereof and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic control devices, provided such traffic control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or State law. (2008 Code § 15-
305)
7-4-6: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall indicate
appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as provided
by applicable State law. (2008 Code § 15-306)
7-4-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (2008 Code §
15-307)
7-4-8: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (2008 Code § 15-308)
7-4-9: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Designation; Posting Of Signs:
      1.   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town designates any one-
way street or alley, the appropriate Town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place.
      2.   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   B.   Traffic Movement In Posted Direction: Upon those streets and parts of
streets and in those alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited. (2008 Code § 15-309)
7-4-10: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Designation: The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may
designate any street or part of a street a through street. (2008 Code § 15-310)
   B.   Signs Posted: Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of
Trustees, the appropriate Town personnel shall be directed to place and
maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals. (2008 Code § 15-311)
7-4-11: STOP AND YIELD SIGNS:
   A.   Stop Signs:
      1.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding. (2008 Code § 15-312)
   B.   Yield Signs:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway.
      2.   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of- way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to
the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved
in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection
after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield the right-of-way. (2008
Code § 15-313)
CHAPTER 5
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Application Of Traffic Regulations
7-5-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-5-3: Riding Regulations And Restrictions
7-5-4: Lights And Reflectors
7-5-1: APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Regulations Applicable Generally:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any
act required by the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 15-401)
      3.   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to bicycles or
motorized scooters operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or motorized scooters. (2008 Code § 15-
401; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Traffic Laws And Regulations Apply: Every person riding a bicycle or
motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws
of this State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the
traffic ordinances of the Town applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as
to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of law
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application. (2008 Code § 15-
402; amd. 2019 Code)
7-5-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Compliance With Traffic Control Signals: Any person operating a bicycle
or motorized scooter shall obey the instructions of official traffic control
signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle or motorized scooter shall disobey the direction of any such sign,
except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in
which event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians. (2008 Code § 15-403; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Walking Bicycles: Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be
subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians. (2008 Code § 15-403)
7-5-3: RIDING REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Use Of Seat; Carrying Persons:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. (2008 Code § 15-404)
      2.   No bicycle or motorized scooter shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (2008 Code §
15-404; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Use Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle or
motorized scooter upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or
one proceeding in the same direction. (2008 Code § 15-405; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Riding On Roadways And Paths: Persons riding bicycles or motorized
scooters upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2) abreast except on
paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or
motorized scooters. (2008 Code § 15-406; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing. (2008 Code § 15-407; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: Bicycles and motorized scooters may not be ridden
upon any sidewalk within the Town. (2008 Code § 15-408; amd. 2019 Code)
7-5-4: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS:
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from
all distances from three hundred feet (300') to five hundred feet (500') to the
rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (2008
Code § 15-409)
CHAPTER 6
GOLF CARTS; ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Limitations Of Activities
7-6-3: Rules And Regulations
7-6-4: Prohibited Acts
7-6-5: Penalty
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein:
ALL-TERRAIN UTILITY VEHICLE: A motorized vehicle manufactured and used
exclusively for off highway use which is forty eight inches (48") or less in
width with an unladen dry weight of eight hundred (800) pounds or less,
traveling on two (2) or more low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be
straddled by the operator, and which is steered by the use of handlebars. This
excludes "sport" and "racing" type vehicles.
GOLF CART AND GOLF CAR:
   A.   Any three (3) or four (4) wheeled vehicle, with a seat height of more
than fifteen inches (15"), powered by a gasoline or electric motor, and capable
of carrying or transporting an operator/driver of the vehicle and at least one
passenger in a side by side seating configuration.
   B.   The term "golf cart" shall mean any vehicle described in this
definition and the definition of all-terrain utility vehicle in this section.
PERSON: Any natural person.
TOWN PROPERTY: All real property wherein the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, has a fee
simple interest therein, any of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma's public trusts, all
easements, platted streets, alleys, and sidewalks within the Municipal limits
of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, which the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, has
jurisdiction to regulate the same. (Ord. 268A, 6-5-2017)
7-6-2: LIMITATIONS OF ACTIVITIES:
   A.   All applicable Oklahoma State laws and Statutes, addressing or
pertaining to vehicular operation, including those related to the possession
and use of alcoholic beverages, traffic laws, including speed limits, etc.,
shall be observed and enforced at all times.
   B.   Drivers or operators of golf carts shall stay to the far right of the
traveled portion of the road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   C.   A license fee is hereby levied on every golf cart that is operated
within the Town, as defined in this chapter, in the amount as set by
resolution, motion or ordinance, per year, per vehicle.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart, as defined in
this chapter, without paying the license fee as above set forth. Upon making
proper application to the Town Police Department, the payment of the license
fee, and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law or
ordinance, the Police Department shall issue a license therefor. Such license
fees shall be credited to the General Fund of the Town.
   E.   Annual licenses shall expire on the thirtieth day of the month of the
year after for which they were issued.
   F.   Every holder of a license above listed shall have the same on his/her
person and/or in his/her possession when operating or in control of or in
possession of a golf cart, as defined in this chapter. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to have said license in possession when operating or in control of or
in possession of a golf cart, as defined in this chapter.
   G.   Any license issued by the Town to any person to operate a golf cart, as
defined in this chapter, may be revoked by the Board of Trustees, Town Judge or
Town police officer, after adequate opportunity for hearing, for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing operation of a
golf cart, as defined in this chapter, in such a manner that he/she has created
or is creating a public nuisance as defined by State law or local ordinance; or
      2.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
   H.   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the
Town.
   I.   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue operation of a
golf cart, as defined in this chapter, has been lost or destroyed without any
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Police Department, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the
duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and file with the Police Department
an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that is has been lost
or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if
believed lost, he/she has made diligent search for it and has been unable to
find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Police
Department, shall be set by the Town Board by resolution, motion or ordinance.
   J.   Every holder of a license above described shall sign a waiver of
liability and hold harmless clause to the Town, and in the event the holder of
the license is below the age of eighteen (18) years, said parents or legal
guardian(s) shall sign the same, and in the event of individual above the age
of eighteen (18) years is incapacitated with a court appointed guardian(s),
said guardian(s) shall sign the same. (Ord. 268A, 6-5-2017)
7-6-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Town Board of Trustees shall adopt such other rules, regulations, and
policies not otherwise stated herein as they deem best for the safety and
convenience of the public and for the operation of golf carts within the Town
limits. When such rules and regulations have been adopted and approved, they
shall be filed in the Town Clerk's Office. Any person found guilty of violating
such rules and regulations shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 268A, 6-5-2017)
7-6-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person under the age of fourteen (14) years may operate/drive a golf
cart upon the public streets within the Town and/or other Town property.
   B.   Any person fourteen (14) years of age may operate/drive a golf cart
upon the public streets within the Town and/or other Town property, provided
he/she is accompanied by an individual in possession a valid Oklahoma driver's
license.
   C.   Any person between the ages of fourteen (14) and eighteen (18) years
may operate/drive a golf cart upon the public streets within the Town and/or
other Town property, provided he/she has a valid Oklahoma driver's license or
Town permit issued by the Town Police Department.
   D.   No person shall stand on a golf cart while it is in operation,
including when it is parked and the engine is engaged.
   E.   No person who is the owner of a golf cart shall permit the same to be
operated in violation of these rules and regulations.
   F.   No person shall drive or operate a golf cart on the east/west street
known as Federal Highway 60 (Broadway Street).
   G.   No person shall drive or operate a golf cart on the north/south street
known as State Highway 34 (Main Street), except on the south side of Federal
Highway 60.
   H.   No person shall drive or operate a golf cart at night.
   I.   No person shall transport or carry more passengers than the number of
passengers which said cart was designed to carry or transport during its
operation.
   J.   No person whose driving privileges have been revoked or suspended by
the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety may operate/drive a golf cart upon the
public streets within the Town and/or other Town property.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for a person less than eighteen (18) years of age
to operate or to be carried as a passenger upon an all-terrain vehicle unless
the person wears a crash helmet of a type which complies with standards
established by 49 CFR section 571.218.
   L.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of an all-terrain vehicle to
carry a passenger unless that all-terrain vehicle has been specifically
designed by the manufacturer to carry a passenger in addition to the operator.
   M.   Any parent, legal guardian or person having actual responsibility for a
person under eighteen (18) years of age, who knows, or should have known, that
the person operating the golf cart is not in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable according to section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
   N.   Any person operating a golf cart within the Town limits shall not
operate said golf cart on any sidewalks within said Town limits.
   O.   Any person operating a golf cart within the Town limits may only do so
during the daylight or as set by ordinance by the Town Trustees.
   P.   Any person not possessing a valid Oklahoma driver's license may make
application to the Town for a permit to operate a golf cart within the Town
limits. Said person shall be required to successfully pass an operation test
with said vehicle, with said test administered by the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 268A, 6-5-2017)
7-6-5: PENALTY:
The fine for violation of this chapter shall be in the amount as established in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 268A, 6-5-2017; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose And Effect
7-7-2: Place Of Impoundment
7-7-3: Duration Of Impoundment
7-7-4: Police Authority To Impound
7-7-5: Inventory Of Impounded Vehicles
7-7-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from Traffic Law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (2008 Code § 15-501)
7-7-2: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Town
Board of Trustees, and to no other place. (2008 Code § 15-502)
7-7-3: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   C.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the Town because of Traffic Law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (2008 Code § 15-503)
7-7-4: POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this section to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this section. (2008 Code § 15-504)
   A.   Disabled Vehicle: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be
impounded under the following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(2008 Code § 15-505)
   B.   Vehicles On Bridge: An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct
or causeway or in any tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hazard, may be impounded. (2008 Code § 15-506)
   C.   Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle: Whenever the driver or
person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody
and detained by police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle
unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded. (2008 Code §
15-507)
   D.   Vehicle Creating Traffic Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded. (2008 Code § 15-508)
   E.   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle:
      1.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this Code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this subsection E.
      2.   If a violation of the provisions of this Code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
      3.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
this Code have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to
be impounded from the property and placed in storage. (2008 Code § 15-509)
   F.   Vehicle Parked Overtime: Any unattended vehicle which has been parked
for more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in any place
shall be impounded, and any vehicle parked in violation of section
7-3-5 of this title, regarding more than seventy two (72) hours, shall be
impounded. (2008 Code § 15-510; amd. 2019 Code)
   G.   Vehicle Blocking Fire Exit Or Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked in
such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded. (2008 Code § 15-511)
   H.   Vehicle Parked In Intersection: Any unattended vehicle illegally parked
in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection with the person in charge of the vehicle being present, shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing. (2008 Code § 15-512)
   I.   Stolen Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
      2.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (2008 Code § 15-513)
   J.   Vehicle With Outstanding Traffic Citations: Any vehicle for which two
(2) or more citations have been issued for violation of an ordinance and have
not been presented as required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any
provision of this title. (2008 Code § 15-514)
7-7-5: INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two (2) or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his property, the protection of
Town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle. (2008 Code § 15-515)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
8-1-2: Obstructing Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-3: Depositing Trash Or Weeds
8-1-4: Playing On Streets
8-1-5: Washing Vehicles
8-1-6: Water And Fluids From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
8-1-7: Hazardous Sidewalks
8-1-8: Penalty
8-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming:
      1.   Required:
         a.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the Town
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the
sidewalks and the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or
alley, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free
and convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
         b.   When such premises is occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
herein required of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that
the lowest branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the
roadway of a street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the
sidewalk.
      2.   Failure To Trim: Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection A1 of this
section, after receiving five (5) days' notice from the head of the department
in charge of streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against the Town.
Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the
trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five (5) days' notice, shall be
a separate offense. (2008 Code § 14-101)
   B.   Injuring: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
on a street or alley in the Town; provided, that this subsection shall not
prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(2008 Code § 14-102)
8-1-2: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Obstructing With Merchandise: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways,
streets and alleys of the Town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any
other obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to
carry on a business or trade. (2008 Code § 14-103)
   B.   Obstructing Pedestrian And Vehicular Traffic: It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the Town in any
manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or
obstruct the streets and alleys of the Town in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon. (2008 Code § 14-104)
   C.   Interfering With Drainage: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct any street, sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the
same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutters.
(2008 Code § 14-111)
8-1-3: DEPOSITING TRASH OR WEEDS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parkings or sidewalks of the Town any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (2008 Code § 14-105)
8-1-4: PLAYING ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the Town, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (2008
Code § 14-106)
8-1-5: WASHING VEHICLES:
   A.   Washing On Street: The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any
street of the Town is hereby prohibited. (2008 Code § 14-107)
   B.   Water Or Mud Draining Into Street: No automobile or other vehicle shall
be washed at any place within the Town where the water, dirt, mud or other
substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof, shall drain into
or upon any street or sidewalk of the Town. (2008 Code § 14-108)
8-1-6: WATER AND FLUIDS FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (2008 Code § 14-109)
8-1-7: HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area. (2008 Code § 14-110)
8-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 14-112)
ARTICLE A. STREET USE PERMIT
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Permit Required
8-1A-2: Application; Required Information
8-1A-3: Hearing On Application; Contents Of Permit
8-1A-4: License Fee
8-1A-5: Authority To Examine Books
8-1A-6: Revocation Of Permit
8-1A-7: Penalty
8-1A-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall use streets, avenues, alleys, and public
ways within the corporate limits of the Town without first obtaining a permit
from the Town Clerk. This chapter shall not apply to the public utilities
operating within the Town under valid franchise nor to public utilities
operating within the Town who pay a gross Production Tax in lieu of a
franchise. (2008 Code § 14-201)
8-1A-2: APPLICATION; REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Before a permit shall be issued granting permission for the applicant to use
the Town's streets, alleys, and public ways, a written application must first
be filed with the Town Clerk, which application must contain the following
information:
   A.   Name of the applicant;
   B.   Use for which the permit is intended;
   C.   Duration of the proposed use;
   D.   The service to be rendered by the applicant;
   E.   A statement that the applicant will conform to all restrictions imposed
by the Town in the applicant's use of the permit;
   F.   A statement that the applicant will assume all liability for personal
injuries and property damage caused by the applicant's property in the
applicant's use of the streets, alleys and public ways; and
   G.   A statement that the applicant's use of the streets, alleys, and public
ways shall not be an exclusive use thereof, and the applicant's use shall be
subject to the use of the same by residents of the Town and franchise users and
other users. (2008 Code § 14-202)
8-1A-3: HEARING ON APPLICATION; CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Hearing: The application herein required shall be set for hearing
before the Board of Trustees' first regular meeting after the filing of the
application. At the hearing before the Town Board, said Board shall determine
whether or not a need for a service rendered by the applicant exists and
determine whether or not the use of the streets, avenues, and public ways by
the applicant will jeopardize the rights of the Town or others holding
franchises or paying gross Production Tax in lieu of a franchise. If in the
judgment of the Board of Trustees a permit should be granted, the Board of
Trustees shall instruct the Town Clerk to issue a permit to the applicant.
   B.   Contents Of Permit: All permits issued under this chapter shall
specifically provide the following:
      1.   That the applicant must assume full liability of any and all
personal injury or property damage caused by the applicant's use of the
streets, avenues, alleys and public ways within the Town;
      2.   That the use by the applicant of the streets, alleys, and public
ways shall be subject to the normal use of the same by residents of the Town
for travel and subject to the use by other public utilities, and that such
permit shall not be considered as exclusive;
      3.   That the applicant shall install, service, and maintain its
properties in good condition at all times, and that, in the event wires,
cables, and poles are used, they shall be so placed as not to interfere with
the normal use of the streets and alleys by the public for travel;
      4.   That the applicant shall file with the Town a map showing the
location of its properties within the streets, avenues, alleys and public ways
of the Town;
      5.   That the applicant shall be subject to regulation and supervision of
the Town and agrees to move its installations when, in the judgment of the
Town, such installations should be moved; and
      6.   That the permit shall not be assigned except on written approval of
the Board of Trustees. (2008 Code § 14-203)
8-1A-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Payment Of Fee; License Term:
      1.   Before issuance of any permit under this chapter, the applicant
shall pay the annual license fee set by the Town Board. The permit shall be
renewable from year to year, subject to the conditions of this chapter.
      2.   All such licenses shall expire on April 30 each year. (2008 Code §
14-204)
   B.   Determination Of Fee: Before issuance of a permit, the Town Clerk shall
collect a license fee determined as follows:
      1.   A minimum license fee as set by motion, resolution or ordinance of
the Town Board, payable in advance, and the equivalent of one percent (1%) of
the gross revenue for the first year, which shall be due and payable at the end
of such year; and
      2.   After the first year, the Town shall be entitled to an annual
license fee equivalent to one percent (1%) of the gross revenue of the
applicant, which shall be due and payable annually. (2008 Code § 14-206)
8-1A-5: AUTHORITY TO EXAMINE BOOKS:
The holder of the permit shall permit the Town Clerk to go over the books of
the company in determining the amount of license fee to be charged. (2008 Code
§ 14-207)
8-1A-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The permit granted by the Town may be revoked by the Board of Trustees for good
cause shown and after full hearing before the Board of Trustees. Such hearing
shall be held after ninety (90) days' notice to the holder of the permit. After
a full hearing before the Board of Trustees, the Board may, in its discretion,
and for good cause shown, revoke the permit granted thereby under the terms of
this chapter. The holder of the permit may appeal from the ruling of the Board
of Trustees directly to the District Court where the hearing shall be held de
novo. (2008 Code § 14-205)
8-1A-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 14-208)
CHAPTER 2
PARK AREAS AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Limitation Of Activities
8-2-3: Rules And Regulations
8-2-4: Prohibited Acts
8-2-5: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein:
ANIMAL: Any mammal (excluding any dogs and cats), bird, reptile, amphibian,
fish, fowl, and invertebrate.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Vici,
Oklahoma.
PARK AREAS AND FACILITIES: Any park, playground, recreation area, sports field,
garden, land, building, or any other structure designated by legal instrument,
formal acceptance or custom under the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees of
the Town of Vici, Oklahoma.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, company, association, firm,
organization, or partnership.
TOWN PROPERTY: All real property wherein the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, has a fee
simple interest therein, any of Town of Vici, Oklahoma's public trusts, all
easements, platted streets, alleys, and sidewalks within the Municipal limits
of the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, which the Town of Vici, Oklahoma, has
jurisdiction to regulate the same. (Ord. 261, 9-16-2004)
8-2-2: LIMITATION OF ACTIVITIES:
   A.   The Town Board of Trustees may designate particular locations within
park areas and facilities and/or other Town property for specific activities
and may limit such activities by issuance of permits.
   B.   The Board may establish operating hours during which park areas and
facilities and/or other Town property shall be open to the public by enactment
of specific rules and regulations; provided, that such hours shall be posted at
the entrances of the affected park area and facility and/or other Town
property. (Ord. 261, 9-16-2004)
8-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Subject to the approval by the Town Board of Trustees, the Town
Superintendent and Town Police Chief shall adopt such rules, regulations, and
policies as they deem best for the safety and convenience of the public and for
the operation of its park areas and facilities and other Town property.
   B.   When such rules and regulations have been adopted and approved, they
shall be filed in the Office of the Town Clerk.
   C.   Any person found guilty of violating such rules and regulations shall
be subject to the penalties set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 261, 9-16-2004)
8-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacing Or Removing Structures Or Facilities Or Appurtenances: No
person shall mark, deface, disfigure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, decorative structures,
railings, pavings, or paving materials, water lines or other public utilities
or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether
temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or
other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or other Town
property or appurtenances whatsoever either real or personal. (Ord. 261, 9-16-
2004)
   B.   Hunting Or Harming Animals Or Nests: No person shall hunt, molest,
harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles at
any animal, wildlife, reptile, or bird or give or attempt to give any such
animal any noxious substance or anything disagreeable to any such animal, or
have in one's possession any animal, or its young, or the eggs, nest or young
of any animal, upon any park areas and facilities and/or other Town property.
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this subsection
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than as set by the Board of Trustees per offense. (Ord.
261, 9-16-2004; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT RUNWAY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Prohibition
8-3-3: Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein:
LANDING FIELD: That portion of any airport lying within one hundred feet (100')
of the centerline of the Town of Vici Municipal Airport's runway and including
that area lying within twenty five feet (25') beyond the end of the Town of
Vici Municipal Airport's runway.
RUNWAY: Any defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length. (Ord. 251, 9-5-2000)
8-3-2: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to walk, run, loiter, stand, or motor upon
any Town Municipal Airport runway or landing field. (Ord. 251, 9-5-2000)
8-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (Ord. 251, 9-5-2000; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES GENERALLY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application For Utility Service
9-1-2: Separate Service
9-1-3: Utility Fees And Billings
9-1-4: Delinquencies; Service Discontinued
9-1-5: Rights Reserved To Interrupt Service
9-1-6: Prohibited Acts
9-1-1: APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his premises connected with
any of the Town's utilities, water, sewer, or trash collection, shall make
application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be furnished
for that purpose, and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for installation
of the service. (2008 Code § 17-101)
9-1-2: SEPARATE SERVICE:
Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service connection
with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be allowed to
supply water or sewer to any other premises. (2008 Code § 17-102)
9-1-3: UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS:
   A.   Billing Generally:
      1.   All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the
Town's sanitary sewer system, the Town's water facility system, or the
operation of the Town's collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are
billed in accordance with applicable rates set as provided in subsection B of
this section.
      2.   All fees and charges owing for any of these utility services shall
be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each month. (2008 Code
§ 17-108)
   B.   Setting Rates And Charges: The Town Board of Trustees shall establish
future rates, charges, deposits, and fees for utility services by ordinance,
motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy of the current rates and
charges shall be available in the Town Clerk's Office. (2008 Code § 17-107)
9-1-4: DELINQUENCIES; SERVICE DISCONTINUED:
   A.   Town Actions Upon Failure To Pay Bill:
      1.   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill for
any utility services by the due date on the bill, the following actions and
penalties may result:
         a.   A penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill is added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the due date of the bill; and
         b.   If the bill remains unpaid after the due date on the bill, then
the following actions may result:
            (1)   The authorized agents of the Town may disconnect or
discontinue any or all utility services to the customer after providing written
notice to the customer of the intent of the Town to disconnect or discontinue
any or all of the utility services.
            (2)   The authorized agents of the Town, upon direction of the Town
Board of Trustees, may discontinue the furnishing of water to any customer
refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after
providing written notice to the customer of the intent of the Town to
disconnect the water service.
      2.   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the Town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service. (2008 Code § 17-103)
   B.   Payment To Town Personnel On Occupant's Premises: If Town personnel
goes to the premises to shut off the service, there shall be added to the bill
a sum for the trip made by the Town personnel to shut off such services.
Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the Town from instituting suit
for the recovery of any delinquent accounts. (2008 Code § 17-103; amd. 2019
Code)
   C.   Restrictions On Acceptance Of Payments: The Town Clerk may not accept
payment of a water bill without payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall
the Clerk accept payment of a sewer bill without payment of the water bill. The
failure to pay any utility bill in accordance with subsections A and B of this
section shall be grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility services
furnished to the customer whose bill is delinquent. (2008 Code § 17-103)
9-1-5: RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE:
The Town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice for
repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, or for any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom. (2008 Code § 17-104)
9-1-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Damaging Equipment: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
destroy or injure any water pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole, or other sewer or
water equipment erected or placed by or belonging to the Town. (2008 Code § 17-
105)
   B.   Tampering With Meters: The tampering with water meters or meter boxes
of the Town, or the placing of any bypass connection on or around the meters,
or the use of any other device tending to interfere with the proper
registration of same is unlawful. (2008 Code § 17-106)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Application For Water Main Connection; Wells Restricted
9-2-2: Water Deposit Required
9-2-3: Contract For Water Service
9-2-4: Damaged Meter; Estimate Of Bill
9-2-5: Water Shortages
9-2-1: APPLICATION FOR WATER MAIN CONNECTION; WELLS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Application For Connection: Any person desiring to make a connection to
a water main of the Town is required to file a written application with the
Town Clerk to make the connection.
   B.   Use Of Wells: No water well(s) may be drilled and/or operated within
the Municipal limits of the Town by any person, corporation, or other entity,
except those well(s) existing at the effective date hereof. Further no person,
corporation, or other entity operating those well(s) existing at the effective
date hereof may connect to a water main or water line of the Town. (Ord. 270,
6-7-2010)
   C.   Noncompliance; Denial Of Service: Any person, firm or corporation who
connects to the water mains of the Town in violation of this chapter or other
ordinances of the Town or the laws of the State will be denied further water
service until there is compliance with such ordinances and laws. (2008 Code §
17-202)
9-2-2: WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to use water shall put up with the Town Clerk as a meter
deposit the amount which is established. The Board of Trustees may establish
classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile homes, and various
types of businesses, for different deposit requirements. (2008 Code § 17-203)
9-2-3: CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE:
The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part of the
person making the application:
   A.   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
   B.   To recognize the right of the Town to change the rate by ordinance at
any time;
   C.   To recognize the right of the Town temporarily to discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
   D.   Stating that the contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect at
the time of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect
thereafter;
   E.   Stating that the Town shall not be responsible for any damage by water
or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that the
fact that an agent of the Town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not
be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
   F.   Providing that the Town shall not be liable for damages resulting from
the interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the cause
thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the Town nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligations of his contract; and
   G.   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the Town and applied by the Town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer; and providing further, that unless the water
deposit is claimed by the consumer within one year after the consumer ceases to
use the water or within one year after the water is turned off for any cause by
the Town, then the consumer forfeits all right, title or interest in and to the
water deposit ninety (90) days after the date the Town mails notice to the
customer at his last known address notifying him that the deposit will be
forfeited. (2008 Code § 17-204)
9-2-4: DAMAGED METER; ESTIMATE OF BILL:
   A.   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or broken by
wilful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or
occupant.
   B.   In case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be
turned on until such charges are paid.
   C.   In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the Water
Superintendent of the average monthly consumption during the last three (3)
months when the meter was in good condition or from what he may consider to be
the most reliable data at his command. (2008 Code § 17-205)
9-2-5: WATER SHORTAGES:
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency:
      1.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the Town's water system.
      2.   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that
the Town's water system is unable or will, within sixty (60) days, become
unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof,
including adequate fire protection. (2008 Code § 17-206)
   B.   Restriction On Water Use In Emergency:
      1.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the Town system. The order
may:
         a.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
         b.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
      2.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
Mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board, by resolution approved by a majority of
all its members, votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date. (2008 Code § 17-207)
   C.   Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency:
      1.   The proclamation required by subsection B of this section shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published, within twenty four
(24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy
of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the Town. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this subsection C is sufficient to effect the emergency.
      2.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
C1 of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with said subsection C1 of this section within twenty four (24) hours of the
first notice. (2008 Code § 17-208)
   D.   Grievances With Water Restrictions: Any person feeling aggrieved by a
proclamation of the Mayor shall have the right to present the matter to the
next regular or special meeting of the Town Board of Trustees or to any
emergency session called to discuss the water emergency. The Board of Trustees
may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the
proclamation order upon a showing that compliance creates an immediate threat
to the person's health or safety. The ruling of the Board of Trustees by a
majority vote of all its members shall be final and binding as to the
continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the action of
the Mayor is modified or revoked by action of the Board of Trustees, all water
users shall be bound by the proclamation. (2008 Code § 17-209)
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or
permits others under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of
a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Any violation of the provisions of the Mayor's proclamation or
action of the Board shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 17-210)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Conformance To Rules And Regulations
9-3-3: Rates And Charges
9-3-4: New Sewers And Connections
9-3-5: Prohibited Discharges
9-3-6: Penalties
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
SANITARY SEWAGE OR SEWAGE: The liquid waste which may or may not contain
solids, originating in the sanitary conveniences for personnel of a dwelling,
business building, factory or institution.
SANITARY SEWER OR SEWER: Means and includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines,
main lines, submain lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants, and all
sewer lines connected to the Town's sewer lines or treatment plants whether
owned by the Town or not.
USER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM: The person, firm or corporation having a contract for
water service at a particular location, if the location has a sanitary sewer
connection with the Town's system, or in case there is no water contract on
file, then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with water bills
for the location, or which pays the same, or in case a private water supply is
used, then the proprietor of the location having the sewer connection. (2008
Code § 17-302)
9-3-2: CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Connections: All connections to the sewers of the Town shall conform to
the rules and regulations prescribed by the Town or authority. (2008 Code § 17-
301)
   B.   Persons:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection
on any public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer, without complying with the rules and regulations
of the Town and obtaining a permit for the connection as required by the Town.
      2.   No person, firm or corporation shall connect more than one building
to a single lateral leading to the public sewer system of the Town. (2008 Code
§ 17-303)
   C.   Noncompliance: Any person who connects to the sewers of the Town in
violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the Town or of the laws of
the State will be denied further sewer service until there is compliance with
such ordinances and laws. It is the duty of the plumbing inspector or other
person designated by the Board of Trustees to disconnect any sewers which have
not been connected in compliance with the ordinances and laws. (2008 Code § 17-
305)
9-3-3: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Charges; Permit:
      1.   A charge prescribed by subsection B of this section for each
connection made on the sanitary sewer system of the Town regardless of whether
the connection is made on what has heretofore been designated as a public sewer
or a private sewer, is hereby levied for the right of the person, firm or
corporation to make the connection to the sanitary sewer system of the Town.
      2.   It is hereby declared to be the duty of the Town Clerk to make this
collection for issuing a permit to the applicant. (2008 Code § 17-304)
   B.   Sewer Service Charge Levied:
      1.   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the
sanitary sewerage system of the Town and for other purposes, there is hereby
fixed and established charges for the use of the wastewater treatment system to
be levied against each respective user thereof within the Town in such amounts
and according to such classifications of users as the Board by resolution or
motion may determine.
      2.   A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on file in the
Town Clerk's Office. (2008 Code § 17-306)
9-3-4: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes and other
applicable rules and regulations of the Town.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Health
regulations.
   C.   When a public sewer is constructed within one hundred feet (100'), all
buildings shall be connected to the sewer system within sixty (60) days. (2008
Code § 17-308)
9-3-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which, by itself or
by interaction with other wastes, may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with the wastewater treatment process or cause
damage to sewer lines, wastewater treatment facilities or other wastewater
system equipment;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in the system's receiving waters.
   B.   All discharges are prohibited except those that meet the criteria for
domestic wastewater. The BOD concentration shall not exceed two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/L). Suspended solids concentration shall not
exceed two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
   C.   All industrial discharges are prohibited. At the present time there are
no industrial users in the Town. If an industrial user should desire to locate
in the Town and make use of the sewer system, an industrial user system will be
initiated in accordance with EPA and State regulations at that time to
compensate for the industrial use of the system.
   D.   Any new connections of stormwater inflow sources into the sanitary
sewer portions of the sewer system are prohibited. (2008 Code § 17-307)
9-3-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection A of this
section, the Town is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   C.   The Town reserves the right to terminate service to any customer that
fails to pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the sewer
system. (2008 Code § 17-309)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Mandatory Service
9-4-3: Fees
9-4-4: Accumulation Of Garbage; Containers; Open Burning
9-4-5: Collection Requirements And Restrictions
9-4-6: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowls from
any premises within the Town limits.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into lengths
not exceeding 31/2 feet), leaves, etc., from any premises within the Town
limits.
RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden, or metal
refuselike materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse.
TOWN HEALTH OFFICER: That person so designated to act by the Town Board of
Trustees, at a compensation also set by the Town Board of Trustees, if any.
(2008 Code § 17-401)
9-4-2: MANDATORY SERVICE:
To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the Town, it is the duty of
every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the Town Garbage
Department at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the
garbage pick up and collection service; provided, however, that failure of any
owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not
prevent nor in any way impair or impede the Town from adding the address of
such premises to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such
service and otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures.
(2008 Code § 17-405)
9-4-3: FEES:
There is charged, assessed and collected from each residential and commercial
unit such amounts as set by the Board of Trustees. (2008 Code § 17-404)
9-4-4: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE; CONTAINERS; OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Container Requirements:
      1.   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage
or rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order
and repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be of sufficient size and construction, rodentproof and flyproof, with a
tightfitting lid or tie which shall not be removed except when depositing or
removing the contents of the receptacle, to accommodate and securely keep all
of the garbage and refuse that may accumulate between collections from and to
prevent the refuse from spilling, leaking or littering the streets or property
in the Town.
      2.   Each container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty two
(32) gallons, except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use.
      3.   All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of
any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   B.   Location; Sanitary Conditions: All containers shall be kept in a
convenient location for collection, as designated by the Town Board of
Trustees, whereby collectors can obtain same without going into buildings,
garages, locked gates or fenced yards with dogs. All containers and grounds
immediately around same shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition at all
times. (2008 Code § 17-402)
9-4-5: COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Collection By Town Or Authorized Representative: The Town or its
authorized representative shall collect from all areas of the Town upon
schedule as approved by the Town Board. It is the duty of any person in
possession or control of any premises to place the containers required by this
chapter in a location easily accessible to the collector as directed by the
Town Health Officer.
   B.   Excessive And Heavy Accumulations:
      1.   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the Town Health Officer for
removal and disposal of same.
      2.   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the Town Health Officer.
   C.   Animal Carcasses: Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules
shall be removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having
same in charge and by the method directed by the Town Health Officer.
   D.   Manure; Waste Oils: Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards,
pigeon lofts, and other animal or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or
filling stations or materials considered hazardous and/or dangerous, shall be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling same in the
manner and by the method directed by the Town Health Officer.
   E.   Placement Or Disposal Of Garbage: The placing of garbage or rubbish or
any refuse material in any street or alley within the Town limits or the
disposal of such refuse at any place within the Town limits, except at such
place as may be directed by the Town Health Officer is prohibited.
   F.   Tampering With Containers; Scattering Contents: The meddling with
refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering contents, or junking in
any alley or street within the Town limits is prohibited. (2008 Code § 17-403)
9-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 17-406)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Code Adopted; Amendments; Penalty
10-1-2: Building Official
10-1-3: Fire Limits
10-1-4: Building Permit Required; Fee
10-1-5: Contracting For Services Related to Residential, Commercial, And
Industrial Plans Review And Inspections
10-1-6:    Penalty; Injunctive Relief
10-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS; PENALTY:
   A.   Code Adopted: That certain document, one copy of which shall be on file
in the Town Hall, being marked and designated as the 2015 International
Building Code and the 2015 International Residential Code, including appendix
chapters, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the "Building Code of the Town of Vici", for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided; and each made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsections B and C of this section. The Town
Clerk shall keep a copy of the subject Building Code on hand, available for
sale and inspection by the public, at all times.
   B.   Building Code Revisions: The following sections of the 2015
International Building Code are hereby revised:
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert "Town of Vici, Oklahoma."
      2.   Section 1612.3. Insert "Town of Vici, Oklahoma."
      3.   Section 1612.3. Insert "April 3, 1987."
      4.   Section 3409.2. Insert "December 31, 2004."
      5.   As amended by OAC 748:20-1-1 through 748:20-1-19.
   C.   Residential Code Revisions: The following sections of the 2015
International Residential Code are hereby revised:
      1.   Section R101.1. Insert "Town of Vici, Oklahoma."
      2.   As amended by OAC 748:20-5-1 through 748:20-5-28.
(2019 Code)
   D.   Penalty: A person who violates a provision of the codes adopted in
subsection A of this section or fails to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters, repairs or removes, or
has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, or removed a building or structure
in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder
or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2008 Code § 5-103)
10-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   The building official of the Town shall be appointed by the Town Board
of Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the "building
official" by the Town Building Code; provided, that his powers and duties may
be exercised by his authorized representatives under his supervision and
control.
   B.   The term "building inspector", whenever used in the ordinances of the
Town, means the building official. The terms "electrical inspector", "plumbing
inspector", and "gas inspector", wherever used in the ordinances of the Town,
also each refer to and mean the building official, unless a separate electrical
inspector, plumbing inspector, and/or gas inspector is appointed by the Town
Board of Trustees. (2008 Code § 5-104)
10-1-3: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits are that part of the Town bounded as follows:
South half of Blocks 43, 44, 45 and the north half of Blocks 36, 37, 38.
(2008 Code § 5-105)
10-1-4: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved without a building permit issued by the Town Clerk as follows:
      1.   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance;
      2.   Whenever changes will amount to more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in cost; or
      3.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
Town to a location within the Town or from one location in the Town to another
location within the Town.
   B.   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the Town Clerk. The applicant shall submit with the application
such reasonable information as the Clerk may require to enable him to determine
whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances of the Town.
   C.   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Clerk shall issue the permit upon the payment by the
applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion, resolution or
ordinance of the Town Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule
shall be kept in the Office of the Town Clerk.
   D.   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building. (2008 Code § 5-106)
10-1-5: CONTRACTING FOR SERVICES RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND
INDUSTRIAL PLANS REVIEW AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Policy. From and after Sept 2, 2020 the Town of Vici staff shall have
the right, duty, and responsibility to enter into contracts as needed with
outside, independent third parties for services related to residential,
commercial, and industrial plans review and inspection in those instances where
code enforcement cannot perform those services due to either to time
constraints or such review and inspection is beyond the capabilities of current
staff. This right to contract as needed for outside service shall include but
not be limited to the following, to wit:
      1.   Annual Life safety inspections.
      2.   Building plans reviews and associated construction inspection.
      3.   Fire alarm plan reviews and associated construction inspection.
      4.   Fire sprinkler plan reviews and associated construction inspections.
      5.   Fire suppression plan reviews( also hood suppression) and associated
construction inspection.
   B.   Costs incurred. It shall further be the policy of the Town of Vici that
the builder/ developer shall be responsible for all Cost/Fees incurred by the
Town of Vici for or on behalf of those services contracted out.
(Res. 283, 9-2-2020)
10-1-6: PENALTY; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by this title, without having a valid license, permit,
certificate, or certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to
do anything required by this title or by any code adopted by this title, or who
shall otherwise violate any provision of this title or of any code adopted by
this title, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of
the officers provided in this title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 5-701)
   B.   Injunctive Relief: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title
shall interfere with the right of the Town also to apply to the proper courts
of the State for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person, firm or corporation. (2008 Code § 5-702)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted; Amendments
10-2-2: Plumber Registration, Permits And Fees
10-2-3: Plumbing Permits And Inspections
10-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: The current edition of a certain document, one copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk and copies available, marked
and designated as the 2015 International Plumbing Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the
Town for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such
publication are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section.
   B.   Revisions: The following sections of the 2015 Plumbing Code are hereby
revised:
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert "Town of Vici, Oklahoma."
      2.   As amended by OAC 748:20-15-1 through 748:20-15-17.
(2019 Code)
10-2-2: PLUMBER REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   The phrases and words "journeyman plumber", "plumber's apprentice",
"plumbing contractor", and "plumbing", when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of the Town shall have the meanings
respectively prescribed for them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1001 et seq.,
the State Plumbing License Law, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade, or
occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber), or
of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber's apprentice, in the Town unless he is
registered with the Town and has a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the plumbing inspector.
   C.   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the Construction Industries
Board as provided by the State Plumbing License Law may register as such with
the Town. Only persons who have current and valid certificates of registration
as plumber's apprentices issued by the Construction Industries Board as
provided by the law, may register as such with the Town. (2008 Code § 5-203)
   D.   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with the
laws of the State and with the Town Code, and after payment of the fee
hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the Town Clerk. The registration
fee shall be as set by the Town Board. The registration shall expire annually,
but may be renewed from year to year. Plumbing contractors desiring to renew
their registration shall furnish the same evidence of compliance with State
licensing laws. (2008 Code § 5-203; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   A qualified person may reregister as a plumbing contractor, a
journeyman plumber or a plumber's apprentice, in the same manner as in the
original instance, and upon the same conditions.
   F.   All plumbing contractor registrations not renewed within ninety (90)
days after the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new
application for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration
paid.
   G.   The fee for registration shall be as set by the Town Board by motion,
resolution or ordinance.
   H.   The Town Board, upon at least ten (10) days' notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the Town registration of any
plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of the
ordinances or regulations of the Town relating to the installation of plumbing
or for any other cause specified in the State Plumbing License Law. (2008 Code
§ 5-203)
10-2-3: PLUMBING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit
from the plumbing inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for such work must follow the
Town Code provisions.
   C.   Permit Fees: The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by
resolution, motion or ordinance of the Town Board. Such payment will be made
upon application.
   D.   Inspections: Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set
forth in the Town Code. (2008 Code § 5-204)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Electrical Equipment Defined
10-3-2: Electrical Code Adopted; Amendments
10-3-3: Electrical Equipment; Compliance; Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
10-3-4: Authority To Make Special Rulings
10-3-5: Permit Required; Fee
10-3-6: Inspection Fee
10-3-7: Electrician Registration Required; Bond
10-3-8: Specific Electrical Requirements
10-3-1: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure. (2008 Code § 5-301)
10-3-2: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: The current edition of a certain document, one copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk and copies available, marked
and designated as the 2014 National Electrical Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of
the Town for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided. Each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such
publication are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section.
   B.   Amendments:
Amended as per OAC 748:20-9-1 through 748:20-9-9.
(2019 Code)
10-3-3: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT; COMPLIANCE; UNDERWRITERS' LABORATORIES, INC.:
   A.   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, the Statutes of the State and any orders, rules
and regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property.
   B.   Unless by this chapter, by a Statute of the State or any orders, rules,
or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or class of
electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use, conformity with
the standards of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property. (2008 Code § 5-303)
10-3-4: AUTHORITY TO MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS:
The Town Board of Trustees, by motion, resolution or ordinance, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions. (2008 Code § 5-304)
10-3-5: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in
the corporate limits of the Town or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the Town Clerk.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for electrical permits shall be
made to the Town Clerk; and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications, and other data as may be reasonably required.
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by
motion, resolution or ordinance passed by the Town Board of Trustees. (2008
Code § 5-308)
10-3-6: INSPECTION FEE:
The Town Board of Trustees, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may prescribe
an inspection fee to be paid to the Town when electrical installations are
inspected by the electrical inspector. (2008 Code § 5-309)
10-3-7: ELECTRICIAN REGISTRATION REQUIRED; BOND:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
Town. The initial fee for a registration certificate, and any renewal, to be
paid to the Town Clerk, shall be as set by the Town Board. A registration
certificate must be renewed within ninety (90) days following expiration of the
certificate. After the expiration, an application for a new certificate must be
requested and the initial fee paid again. No person may be registered with the
Town as contractor or journeyman unless he possesses a valid and current State
license issued by the State and pays the registration fee in such sum as set by
the Town Board by motion, resolution, or ordinance. This certificate is not
transferrable to any other individual or company. (2008 Code § 5-310; amd. 2019
Code)
   B.   Every person receiving a certificate as an electrical contractor shall
file with the Town Clerk a bond in such sum as set by the Town Board, executed
with a surety company authorized to do business in the State. The bond shall be
conditioned that the principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances, and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the Town relating to electrical installations and in a
workmanlike manner; that the principal shall, without further cost to the
person for whom the work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused
by poor workmanship or inferior or nonstandard material; and that the Town may
be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all costs, expenses or
damage resulting from the performance of his work as an electrical contractor
or apprentice electrician, as the case may be.
   C.   For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over
twelve (12) volts, no registration or bond will be required. The installation
of same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the Town.
   D.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the Town Board may revoke the
certificate of an electrical contractor, an apprentice electrician, or a
journeyman electrician. (2008 Code § 5-310)
10-3-8: SPECIFIC ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Pilot Light Required: In all mercantile occupancies where electric
irons are used, they must be installed with an approved pilot light. If the
pilot light is in an enclosure such as an alteration room, an additional light
must be installed in a visible position outside the enclosure. (2008 Code § 5-
305)
   B.   Branch Circuits: In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting
branch circuits shall be confined to one thousand (1,000) watts, and not more
than eight (8) outlets per circuit will be allowed in the fire limits. Branch
circuit conductors shall be smaller than no. 12 type C lamp cord and will not
be permitted in the kitchen of restaurants or like places where grease
accumulates, nor in part of a building where live poultry is confined. (2008
Code § 5-306)
   C.   Basement Installations: A circuit of not less than no. 12 wire shall be
installed in basements in any area subject to floods. Ground connections shall
not be made in toilets, adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors, or in any
location where the grounding conductor and fitting is likely to become
corroded. (2008 Code § 5-307)
CHAPTER 4
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted; Amendments
10-4-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: The current edition of a certain document, one copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk and copies available, marked
and designated as the 2015 International Fuel Gas Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the
Town for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such
publication are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section.
   B.   Amendments:
Amended as per OAC 748:20-11-1 through 748:20-11-10.
(2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Fire Code Adopted; Amendments
10-5-2: Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids, Gases And Explosives
10-5-3: Modifications; Appeals
10-5-4: Penalty
10-5-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: The current edition of a certain document, one copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk and copies available, marked
and designated as the 2015 International Fire Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the
Town for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such
publication are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section.
   B.   Revisions: The following sections of the 2015 Fire Code are hereby
revised:
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert: "Town of Vici, Oklahoma."
      2.   As amended by OAC 748:20-3-1 through 748:20-3-15.
(2019 Code)
10-5-2: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, GASES AND EXPLOSIVES:
The limits referred to in the Fire Code in which storage of flammable liquids
in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits referred to in which
bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, and the limits in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are hereby established
as the fire limits provided in section
10-1-3 of this title. (2008 Code § 13-104)
10-5-3: MODIFICATIONS; APPEALS:
   A.   Authority Of Fire Chief: The Chief of the Fire Department shall have
power to modify any of the provisions of the code hereby adopted in his own
discretion or upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modifications, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Chief
of the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
department, and for applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant.
   B.   Appeals: Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board
of Trustees within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(2008 Code § 13-105)
10-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code § 13-106)
CHAPTER 6
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted; Amendments
10-6-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: The current edition of a certain document, one copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk and copies available, marked
and designated as the "International Property Maintenance Code", as published
by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the Town for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the International Property
Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set forth in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Amendments: The Property Maintenance Code adopted by this section is
hereby amended, altered or changed in the following respects:
100.1. Section PM-100.0 (page 1, second line) is amended by inserting "Town of
Vici, Oklahoma."
109.2 Section PM-109.2 is amended to read as follows: "Any person who violates
any provision of this code shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Vici Town Code."
(2019 Code)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Findings
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-5: Application And Interpretation; Compliance Required
11-1-6: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
11-1-8: Development Permit
11-1-9: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-10: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-11: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
11-1-12: Variances
11-1-13: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the Town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (2008 Code § 12-201)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (2008 Code § 12-202)
11-1-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; or
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (2008 Code § 12-203)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. The following
terms, as used herein, shall have the following meanings:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AM, or VO Zone on the Town's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet (3')
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the Town
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zone A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING:
   A.   A nonbasement building:
      1. Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH,
B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zone V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
      2. Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
   B.   In the case of Zones A1-30, A1, A, A99, AO AH, B, C, X, and D,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters. In the case of Zone V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated
building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of
"elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by means of
breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section 603(e)(5)
of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): The official map of the Town, issued by the
Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related to erosion areas having special hazards which have been designated as
Zone A, M, or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map of the Town on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium Zones applicable to the Town.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the Town subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the depths
of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams, reservoirs,
levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed
in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such State or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source. (See definition of flooding.)
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local Inventory of Historic Places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1. By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a recreational vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which the
base flood elevations shown on the Town's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date hereof and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub.L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation of
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. For full requirements see section 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, here specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas. (2008
Code § 12-204; amd. 2019 Code)
11-1-5: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application And Interpretation:
      1.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the Town. (2008 Code § 12-205)
      2.   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all
provisions shall be:
         a.   Considered as minimum requirements;
         b.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
         c.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes. (2008 Code § 12-210)
   B.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (2008 Code §
12-209)
   C.   Compliance Required: No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. (2008 Code § 12-208)
11-1-6: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on its Flood Hazard Boundary Map 1  (FHBM) and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. (2008 Code § 12-206)
 
Notes
1 1. The FHBM is for community number 400448, November 5, 1976.
11-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The Board of Trustees is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (2008 Code § 12-212)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by the adoption of this chapter;
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required;
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
coordinating agency which is the Oklahoma Water Resources Board prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
11-1-6 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
sections
11-1-9,
11-1-10 and
11-1-11 of this chapter. (2008 Code § 12-213)
11-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 12-207)
   B.   Application For Permit; Required Information: Application for a
development permit shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms
furnished by him and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
11-1-10B of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent of which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
11-1-7B1 of this chapter.
   C.   Factors For Permit Approval Or Denial: Approval or denial of a
development permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the
provisions of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area. (2008 Code § 12-214)
11-1-9: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or
modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the system into floodwaters; and
   G.   Onsite wastewater disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding. (2008 Code § 12-216)
11-1-10: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
11-1-6, subsection
11-1-7B8 or
11-1-11D of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
subsection
11-1-8B of this chapter is satisfied;
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level, the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator; and
   C.   Manufactured homes are required to be placed within Zone A on the
Town's FHBM or FIRM and shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(2008 Code § 12-217)
11-1-11: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
11-1-1,
11-1-2 and
11-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of section
11-1-8 of this chapter and the provisions of sections
11-1-9 et seq., of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
11-1-6 and subsection
11-1-7B8 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (2008 Code § 12-218)
11-1-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   The Appeal Board as established by the Town shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in sections
11-1-9,
11-1-10 and
11-1-11 of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
11-1-8C of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter as set out in section
11-1-2 of this chapter.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      3.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the costs of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by the Town for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outline in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (2008 Code § 12-215)
11-1-13: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Town or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (2008 Code § 12-211)
