CITY CODE
of
VINITA, OKLAHOMA
2005
Code current through:
Ord. 3856, passed November 5, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Vinita, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 3856, passed November 5, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 3279
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE "VINITA CITY CODE 2005", COMPILED,
REVISED, CODIFIED, AND PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF VINITA, OKLAHOMA; CONTAINING THE PERMANENT AND GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY; REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES AND PARTS OF ORDINANCES OF A PERMANENT AND
GENERAL NATURE NOT INCLUDED IN THE CODE; AMENDING "VINITA CITY CODE 1986" TO
INCLUDE, REMOVE, AND AMEND CODE PROVISIONS TO THE EXTENT IT IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE "VINITA CITY CODE 2005"; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR WRONGFULLY CHANGING
OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; REGULATING THE BRINGING OF THE CODE UP TO DATE;
PROVIDING FOR CERTIFICATION OF COPIES OF THE CODE, AND FOR SALE OF COPIES
THEREOF; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VINITA, OKLAHOMA:
Sec. 1.    Code Adopted; How Cited.
   (a) The code of ordinances compiled, revised and codified for the city of
Vinita, Oklahoma, by authority of the mayor and city council of the said city,
consisting of chapters 1 through 12, is hereby adopted and enacted by the city
of Vinita, Oklahoma.
   (b) The code may be cited as "Vinita city code 2005", or by other properly
identifying designation. When a change or herein below, the words "as amended"
may be added to the above citation or title when referring to the code as
amended. The year may be omitted.
Sec. 2.   Permanent And General Ordinances Not Included Are Repealed; Amending
Vinita City Code 1986.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to September 15, 1986, and in effect at the time the code is
adopted but not included in the code, are hereby repealed as of the date when
the code goes into effect. Ordinances passed on or after March 11, 1998 shall
not be repealed or amended by the adoption of the code or the passage of this
ordinance. Provided further that the "Vinita city code 1986" is amended and
repealed to the extent that it is inconsistent with the "Vinita city code
2005".
Sec. 3.    Repeal Of Ordinances Not To Affect Any Offense Or Act Done Prior To
Time Code Goes Into Effect, Etc.
   The repeal of ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature by the above section of this ordinance shall not affect any offense
committed or act, or any penalty of forfeiture incurred, or any contract, right
or obligation established prior to the time when said ordinances and part of
ordinances are repealed.
Sec. 4.    Temporary And/Or Special Ordinances Continue In Effect, Although
Omitted From Code.
   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts
of ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among the temporary and/or
special ordinances not repealed or amended by the adoption of the code, are the
following: ordinances creating, opening, dedicating, vacating, or closing
specific streets, alleys, or dedicating, vacating, or closing specific streets,
alleys, establishing the grades of specific streets and other public or other
public ways; authorizing or relating to specific issues of bonds; creating or
relating to specific sewer and paving districts and other specific local
improvement annexing territory to, or excluding territory from, the city;
calling or providing for special elections; approving or authorizing specific
contracts with the state or with others: authorizing a specific lease, sale or
purchase of property; granting rights-of-way of others; granting a specific
public utility or any other person, firm or corporations the right or privilege
of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of using the streets and
alleys; granting a franchise to a specific public utility, or regulating a
specific public utility; or amending the zoning map.
Sec. 5.    Catchlines, Headings And Titles.
   Catchlines, headings and titles of sections and other subdivisions in the
code adopted by these ordinances or in changes made in the code, are inserted
for the convenience of users of the code, and shall have no legal effect.
Sec. 6.    Notes Inserted For Convenience.
   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information, or referring
to the statutes or to other parts of the code, are inserted in the code, and
may be inserted in changes to the code for the convenience of users of the
code; and shall have no legal effect.
Sec. 7.    Certified Copies Of The Code.
   (a) The city clerk shall carefully examine at least one copy of the code
adopted by this ordinance to see that it is a true and correct copy of the
code. Similarly, after each change or supplement has been prepared, printed,
and inserted in the code, the city clerk shall carefully examine at least one
copy of the code as amended to see that it is a true and correct copy of the
code as amended. The city clerk shall then insert a certificate in the front of
the said true and correct copy or copies of the code certifying substantially
that the copy is a true and correct copy of the code, or ordinances of the
city, including all permanent and general ordinances passed or adopted prior to
the date to which the code has been brought up to date and still in effect as
of that date.
   (b) A copy of the code as originally adopted or amended and certified shall
constitute the permanent and general ordinances of the city as of the date
indicated in the certificate, and shall be so accepted by the courts of law,
administrative tribunals and others concerned.
   (c) One copy of the code so certified shall be kept in the office of the
city clerk at all times, and may be inspected by any interested person at any
time during regular office hours; but may not be removed from the city clerk's
office or possession except upon proper order of a court of law.
Sec. 8.    Permanent And General Ordinances Passed On Or After March 11, 1998.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed
or adopted on and after March 11, 1998, may be passed or adopted either (1) in
the form of amendments to the code or ordinances adopted by this ordinance, or
(2) without specific reference to the code. But, in either case, all such
ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the code; and
all of the substantive permanent and general parts of such ordinance and
changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and made in the code
wherever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance by the city
council, as provided hereinafter.
Sec. 9.    Penalty For Altering Or Tampering With Code.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall alter, change or amend the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance except in the manner prescribed by this
ordinance, or who shall alter or tamper with the code in manner so as to cause
the ordinances of the city to be misrepresented thereby, is guilty of an
offense against the city, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
maximum fine for each violation shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00), not
including: costs, or imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days, or both such
fine and imprisonment.
Sec. 10.    Sale Of Copies Of The Code.
   The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code
of ordinances to the public at a price to be determined from time to time by
motion or resolution of the city council.
Sec. 11.    Emergency.
   Whereas, it being immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace,
health and safety and public good of the city of Vinita and the inhabitants
thereof that the provisions of this ordinance be put into full force and
effect, an emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason whereof this
ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 5th day of July, 2005.
ATTEST:
APPROVED:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Vinita. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the VINITA CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2005 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2005 Code)
1-1-4: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the
corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1986 Code § 10-6)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Separability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2005 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance
of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances
contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a
new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue,
or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving
any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the
time of the adoption of this city code. (2005 Code)
1-2-4: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold one or more sections or a part
of a section of this code or of an ordinance passed hereafter invalid, such
holding shall not affect the remainder of the code or ordinance nor the context
in which such section, sections, or part of a section so held invalid may
appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a section may be
inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section, sections or part
of a section so held invalid. (1986 Code § 10-7)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2005 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CLEET: Council on law enforcement and education training.
CITY: The city of Vinita, county of Craig, state of Oklahoma.
CODE: The city code of the city of Vinita.
COUNTY: The county of Craig, state of Oklahoma.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Vinita".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to other
genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Vinita".
OFFICIAL SEAL 1 : The official seal of the city shall have in the center the
coat of arms of the state of Oklahoma, and in a circular band surrounding this
device shall be the words "City of Vinita, Craig County, Oklahoma".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person, except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SEAL: See definition of Official Seal.
STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1986 Code §§ 10-3, 10-5; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-1A of this title for city clerk as keeper of seal.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2005
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Elections; Officers Elected; Terms
1-4-2: Nonpartisan Elections
1-4-3: Absentee Ballots
1-4-4: Wards
1-4-1: GENERAL ELECTIONS; OFFICERS ELECTED; TERMS:
   A.   Election Of Officers; Terms:
      1.   General elections shall be held on the first Tuesday in April in
each odd numbered year. (1986 Code § 1-1)
      2.   One council member from the four (4) wards, the mayor, the city
clerk, the chief of police and the street commissioner shall be elected for
four (4) year terms.
      3.   At the next general election, the other council members from the
wards and the city treasurer shall be elected for a four (4) year term. (1986
Code § 1-1; amd. 2005 Code)
      4.   Unless otherwise provided for by law, the term of office of an
elected official shall be four (4) years. The term of office of an elected
official shall begin at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday
following the general election, and such official shall serve until his
successor is elected and qualified. If a newly elected official does not
qualify within thirty (30) days after his term of office begins, the office
shall become vacant and shall be filled in the manner provided by law. In order
to complete the unexpired term, the office of an official who is holding over
shall be filled at the next general election, in compliance with provisions of
11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 16-101 through 16-213.
   B.   Qualifications: Any municipal elected official shall be a resident and
a registered voter of the city of Vinita, and all council members shall be
actual residents of their respective wards. If the official ceases to be a
resident, he shall thereupon cease to be an official. (1986 Code § 1-1)
1-4-2: NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS:
Elections for offices of the city shall be on a nonpartisan basis, and shall be
held in accordance with state law. (Ord. 2817, 1-15-1991)
1-4-3: ABSENTEE BALLOTS:
The use of absentee ballots in all municipal elections in the city is
authorized in accordance with state law. (1986 Code § 1-3)
1-4-4: WARDS:
The boundary lines of the four (4) wards of the city are as follows:
   A.   Wards 1 And 4: Wards 1 and 4 shall be all that part of the city lying
north of the centerline of Illinois Avenue, and Ward 1 being west of, and Ward
4 being east of, the following described boundary line: Beginning at the
intersection of the centerline of west Illinois Avenue and the centerline of
Smith Street; thence north along the centerline of Smith Street to the
centerline of the alley situated in Block 43; thence west along said alley
centerline to the center of North Miller Street; thence north along the
centerline of North Miller Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Clyde Avenue; thence east along the centerline of Clyde Avenue to the
intersection of the centerline of North Thompson Street; thence north along the
centerline of North Thompson Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Halsell Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Halsell Avenue to the
intersection of the centerline of North Miller Street; thence north along the
centerline of North Miller Street to the city limits.
   (1986 Code § 22-1; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Wards 2 And 3: Wards 2 and 3 shall be all that part of the city lying
south of the centerline of Illinois Avenue, and Ward 2 being west of, and Ward
3 being east of, the following boundary line: Beginning at the intersection of
the centerline of Illinois Avenue and the centerline of South Smith Street;
thence south along the centerline of South Smith Street to the centerline of
West Canadian Avenue; thence east along the centerline of Canadian Avenue to
the intersection of the centerline of Thompson Street; thence south in a
straight line to the intersection of the centerline of West Delaware Avenue and
centerline of South Thompson Street; thence west along the centerline of West
Delaware Avenue to the intersection of the centerline of South Miller Street;
thence south along the centerline of South Miller Street to the end thereof;
thence continuing in a straight line south to the intersection of the
centerline of Sunset Drive; thence east along the centerline of Sunset Drive to
the intersection of the centerline of South Smith Street; thence south along
the centerline of South Smith Street to the centerline of Mockingbird Lane;
thence west along the centerline of Mockingbird Lane to the centerline of
Sunset Drive; thence south along the centerline of Sunset Drive to the city
limits.
(Ord. 3540, 11-20-2012)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Form Of Government; Election; Terms; Powers
1-5-2: President Of Council
1-5-3: Council Meetings
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Order Of Business
1-5-6: Rules Governing Procedure
1-5-1: FORM OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTION; TERMS; POWERS:
   A.   Election; Terms: The city is governed by the statutory mayor- council
or aldermanic form of government with a mayor elected at large and two (2)
council members from each ward, each serving a four (4) year term. The schedule
of election of council members is provided in section
1-4-1 of this title.
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Council: The council shall have the powers and duties as prescribed
by law or ordinance. (2005 Code)
      2.   Mayor: The mayor shall be chief administrative officer of the city
and shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 9-104 through 9-106 and other state law and as may be prescribed by
ordinance. (1986 Code § 1-6)
1-5-2: PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL:
   A.   Election By Members: The council shall elect from among its members a
president of the council. The council president shall be elected in each odd
numbered year at the first council meeting held after council terms begin or as
soon thereafter as practicable, and he shall serve until his successor has been
elected and qualified.
   B.   Act As Mayor: The council president shall act as mayor in the absence
of the mayor. While presiding in the place of the mayor, he shall have all the
powers, rights and privileges as other members of the council. (2005 Code)
1-5-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Commencing January 2, 2008, the city council shall hold a regular
meeting immediately following the board of the Vinita utilities authority
meeting which begins at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., on every first and
every third Tuesday of every month; provided, that the council may, by majority
vote and proper notice as provided by law, alter the meeting time and date.
(1986 Code § 1-4; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 3378, 11-20-2007; Ord. 3379, 11-20-2007)
      2.   Every meeting of the council shall be held in the council chamber in
the municipal building, unless otherwise specified by the city council. (1986
Code § 1-4)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) council members may call
special meetings. The call for special meetings must be in writing and specify
the subjects to be considered. No business other than specified in the call
shall be transacted at the special meeting. A special meeting can be held at
the place designated in the call. (1986 Code § 1-5)
   C.   Open Meetings: Meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, pursuant to 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 301 et seq. (2005 Code)
1-5-4: QUORUM:
In all cases, it shall require a majority of the members of the city council to
constitute a quorum to do or transact any business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from time to time and from day to day, to any date prior to the next
regular meeting, and may compel the attendance of absent members. Any wilful
absence of any council member, when requested to attend for the purpose of
having a quorum, shall constitute a dereliction of duty and subject such
offending council member to removal from office. (2005 Code)
1-5-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The city council shall attend to the business before it in accordance with the
agenda for each meeting posted pursuant to 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 311.
The city council may, by resolution, adopt or specify an order of business to
be listed upon agendas for meetings of the city council. (2005 Code)
1-5-6: RULES GOVERNING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Rules Enumerated: The following rules shall prevail and govern all
meetings of the city council:
      1.   The mayor, or the president of the council in his absence, shall
preside over the council, shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to appeal to the council.
      2.   While the mayor or presiding officer is putting the question, no
member shall leave his seat.
      3.   Every member, shall proceed with his remarks only after being
recognized by the presiding officer.
      4.   When a question is under debate, the only motions in order shall be:
to adjourn, to take a recess, to lay on the table the previous question, to
limit or extend limits of debate, to postpone to a certain time, to commit or
refer, to amend, to postpone indefinitely. Each such motion shall take
precedence in the order named, and the first five (5) shall be decided without
debate.
      5.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order when the floor can be
obtained for that purpose, except while the yeas and nays are being called,
while members are voting, when adjournment was the last motion, or when it has
been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
      6.   A motion to lay on the table is not debatable; and such motion may
not be made with any condition included in it (that is, it must be simply a
motion to lay on the table).
      7.   A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence over
a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
      8.   A question may be reconsidered at or during the same meeting or at
the first meeting thereafter; provided, however, that a motion to reconsider
must be made by a member who voted in the majority, and in case of a tie vote
those who vote in the negative shall be considered the majority.
      9.   All rules laid down in "Robert's Rules Of Order", latest edition,
are hereby declared to be the rules governing the council, except in case of
conflict with the rules herein laid down and adopted.
   B.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules may be temporarily suspended by a vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the question of suspension; but shall
not be repealed, altered, or amended, except by ordinance. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment Of Officials And Personnel
1-6-2: Removal Or Suspension; Appeal
1-6-3: Salaries And Compensation
1-6-4: Bonds Of Officers, Personnel
1-6-5: Old Age And Survivors' Insurance
1-6-6: Employee Retirement System
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIALS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Appointment Of Certain Officials After Submission To Voters:
      1.   The city council may, by ordinance, provide for the submission to a
vote of the qualified electors of the city the question of providing for the
appointment by the mayor and council of the chief of police, the street
commissioner, the city clerk, the city treasurer, or the city clerk-treasurer.
      2.   The question of appointing each official shall be submitted
separately on the ballot. The question providing for the appointment of the
city clerk or the city treasurer may be consolidated into one question,
provided the two (2) offices are to be consolidated into the office of the city
clerk-treasurer. The question providing for the appointment of any official
shall read substantially as follows: "Shall the (chief of police, street
commissioner, clerk, treasurer, clerk-treasurer) be appointed by the mayor and
the city council?" If a majority of the voters voting on the question favor
appointment to the office, the appointive provision shall take effect at the
end of the current term of the office. The appointive officer shall be
appointed by and may be removed by a majority vote of all members of the city
council. (1986 Code § 1-2)
   B.   Personnel: The mayor, with approval of the city council, shall appoint
such personnel as may be necessary to exercise the powers and perform the
duties relative to the functions which are lawfully imposed upon or assumed by
the city. (1986 Code § 1-67)
1-6-2: REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION; APPEAL:
   A.   Authority Of Mayor; Appeal To Council: An appointed officer or employee
may be suspended, demoted, laid off or removed by the mayor. The officer or
employee may appeal the action to the city council. The appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
effective date of the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal.
   B.   Council Action: The city council may affirm, reverse or modify the
mayor's decision. Said removals, demotions, suspensions and layoffs shall be
made solely for the good of the service. Further, the council may suspend for
cause, by majority vote of all of its members, any officer of the city except
the mayor. (1986 Code § 1-68)
1-6-3: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaries Established: the following salaries and rates of compensation
are established for the elected officials of the city of Vinita:
      1.   Mayor: The mayor shall be paid two thousand six hundred ninety-one
and 87/100 dollars ($2,691.87) per month, with a car allowance of two hundred
fifteen dollars ($215.00) per month.
      2.   Council Members: The pay period for council members shall be monthly
with council members to be paid eighty-five dollars ($85.00) for each regularly
scheduled city council meeting and fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each emergency
meeting, special meeting, and committee meeting. Beginning on April 17, 2023;
however, council members shall be paid one hundred fifteen dollars ($115.00)
for each regular scheduled city council meeting and twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each emergency meeting, special meeting, and committee meeting
      3.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall be paid four thousand five hundred
fifty-two and 93/100 dollars ($4,452.93) per month, with a car allowance of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per month.
      4.   City Treasurer: The city treasurer shall be paid one thousand four
hundred eight and 33/100 dollars ($1,408.33) per month.
      5.   Police Chief: The police chief shall be paid four thousand five
hundred fifty-two and 93/100 dollars ($4,452.93) per month, with a car
allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month.
      6.   Street Commissioner: The street commissioner shall be paid four
thousand five hundred fifty-two and 93/100 dollars ($4,452.93) per month, with
a car allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month. (Ord. 3054, 1-7-
1997; amd. Ord. 3091, 12-28-1998; Ord. 3199, 1-3-2003; Ord. 3262, 12-21-2004;
Ord. 3340, 12-19-2006; Ord. 3422, 1-20-2009; Ord. 3642, 1-17-2017; Ord. 3651,
5-16-2017; and Ord. 3760, 4-6-2021)
   B.   Salary Increases: That at the beginning of each fiscal year, beginning
the fiscal year 2021-2022, and at the beginning of each fiscal year thereafter,
the salaries of the elected statutory aldermanic officials, that being the
Mayor, City Clerk, Chief of Police, Street Commissioner and City Treasurer,
shall be increased by an amount that is computed by multiplying the average
percentage increase granted all other city employees during the previous fiscal
year multiplied by the monthly salary paid the above designated officials.
(Ord. 2394, 1-18-1983; Ord. 2440, 8-7-1984; Ord. 3760, 4-6-2021)
   C.   Appointed Officers: All appointed officers shall receive such
compensation as may from time to time be determined by the city council;
provided, that if the compensation of any appointed officer be lowered after he
has entered upon the performance of his duties, thirty (30) days' notice shall
be given to such officer before such reduction shall take effect. (1986 Code §
1-69)
   D.   Time Of Payment: The salaries and compensation herein prescribed shall
be paid by the city on the first day of each calendar month for the full
preceding month's service. The council members shall receive their salaries on
the first day of each month for the full preceding month's service. (1986 Code
§ 1-70)
   E.   Reimbursement For Expenses: Elected officials and other employees may
be reimbursed for expenses actually incurred by them in the performance of
their duties; provided, that no such reimbursement shall be made unless the
incurrence thereof shall have been approved or authorized in advance by the
city council or by the mayor when prior approval by the city council is
impractical. (1986 Code § 1-71)
   F.   Employee Benefits For Certain Positions: The mayor, city clerk, police
chief, street commissioner and all other elected officials other than city
council members shall receive all employee benefits to the same extent as all
other employees of the city not covered by a collective bargaining employee
contract with the city, including, without limitation, health insurance, life
insurance, dental insurance, safety bonuses, performance bonuses, stipends and
longevity pay incentives.
   G.   City Council Members: All city council members shall receive all
employee insurance benefits to the same extent as all other employees of the
city not covered by a collective bargaining employee contract with the city,
including, without limitation, medical insurance, life insurance and dental
insurance. (Ord. 3489, 2-8-2011, eff. 4-19-2011)
1-6-4: BONDS OF OFFICERS, PERSONNEL:
   A.   Bond Amounts: Before entering upon their official duties, the following
personnel of the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful
performance of their official duties, payable to the city, with a surety
company authorized to operate within the state, in the amounts respectively
indicated after their titles:
Mayor                  $ 5,000.00
Accounts payable clerk 5,000.00
Billing clerk          5,000.00
Cashier                5,000.00
City clerk             6,500.00
City treasurer 1       50,000.00
Court clerk            1,000.00
Deputy clerk           5,000.00
Payroll clerk          5,000.00
 
(1986 Code § 1-72; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Other Officials Or Employees; Blanket Bond: The city council, by motion
or resolution, may require other officers and employees in such positions as it
may designate to be bonded, and also by motion or resolution may increase the
amount of the bonds for the personnel listed in subsection A of this section.
The city may also provide for a blanket bond to cover any or all of its
officers and employees.
   C.   Payment Of Premiums: The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(1986 Code § 1-72)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-6B-2 of this chapter.
1-6-5: OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS' INSURANCE:
   A.   Benefits Extended To City Personnel: It is hereby declared to be the
policy and purpose of the city to extend, at the earliest date, to the
employees and officials thereof, not excluded by law or ordinance, and whether
employed in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the
benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors' insurance as
authorized by the federal social security act and amendments thereto, including
public law 734, 81st congress. In pursuance of said policy, and for that
purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state
or federal laws or regulations. (1986 Code § 1-76)
   B.   Mayor Authorized To Execute Agreements: The mayor is hereby authorized
and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with
the state department of public welfare, as agent or agency, to secure coverage
of employees and officials as provided in subsection A of this section. (1986
Code § 1-77)
   C.   Withholdings From Salaries And Wages: Withholdings from salaries or
wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of
this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and
shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or
regulations. (1986 Code § 1-78)
   D.   Appropriations For Employer's Contributions: There shall be
appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's
contributions, which shall be paid over to the state or federal agency
designated by said laws or regulations. (1986 Code § 1-79)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1986 Code § 1-80)
   F.   Certain Officials And Employees Excluded: There is hereby excluded from
this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position
or any employee or official whose compensation is on a fee basis, or any
position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations. (1986 Code § 1-81)
1-6-6: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Pension Plan Approved; Amending Ordinances:
      1.   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service
on the part of employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized, created, established, approved, and adopted, effective as of
October 1, 1986, the funded pension plan designated "Employee Retirement System
Of City Of Vinita, Oklahoma" (hereinafter called "system"), an executed
counterpart of which is marked exhibit A and attached to ordinance 2711, on
file in the office of the city clerk, and made a part hereof by reference.
(1986 Code § 1-82; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Ordinances of the city which amend the system shall be and remain on
file in the office of the city clerk. (2005 Code)
   B.   Administration; Board Of Trustees: For the purpose of administration of
the system, there is hereby established a board of trustees, which shall be the
members of the city council, as now existing or as from time to time duly
elected or appointed and constituted. The powers and duties of the board of
trustees shall be as set forth in the system instrument. (1986 Code § 1-83)
   C.   Fund Established: A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and
benefit of the persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions
to such fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by
the city treasurer, who shall be the treasurer of the system. Such fund shall
be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of other
incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the state of Oklahoma as a
part of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, in accordance with a duly
executed contract for such purpose, which contract shall be executed by the
city council as soon as feasible. The treasurer shall hold such contributions
in the form received, and from time to time pay over and transfer the same to
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, as duly authorized and directed by the
board of trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal. The fund and system shall be
valued every other year for actuarial soundness by a qualified actuarial firm.
(1986 Code § 1-84)
   D.   Appropriations: The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation, and administration of the system and
appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to
appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee
contributions, to maintain the system and the fund on a sound actuarial basis
in accordance with the respective annual actuarial valuation. Any appropriation
so made to maintain the system and fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries
and/or the payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration,
including separate appropriations to be transferred to the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund. (1986 Code § 1-85)
   E.   Execution:
      1.   The mayor and city clerk are each hereby authorized and directed to
execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) the
system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary, advisable and
proper to put said system and related trust into full force and effect, and to
make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under
sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the internal revenue code of the United States.
The counterpart attached to ordinance 2711, on file in the office of the city
clerk, as exhibit A, which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously
with the passage of this section (ordinance 2711) and made a part hereof, is
hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. (1986 Code § 1-86; amd. 2005
Code)
      2.   The city council hereby agrees to pool and combine the fund into the
Oklahoma municipal retirement fund as part thereof, with similar funds of such
other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management, and investment
according to the terms of the trust indenture of the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund, a public trust. (1986 Code § 1-86)
   F.   Conflicting Law: Any ordinance inconsistent with the terms and
provisions of this section is hereby repealed; provided however, that such
repeal shall be only to the extent of such inconsistency and in all other
respects this section shall be cumulative of other ordinances regulating and
governing the subject matter covered by this section. (1986 Code § 1-87)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  1-4-1A2 of this title for election, and 1-6-3A and B for compensation.
1-6A-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Meetings; Recording Of Ordinances: The city clerk shall attend meetings
of the city council and shall keep a journal of its proceedings, as provided by
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 9-112. The clerk shall enter at length all
ordinances passed by the council in the ordinance book, as required by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 9-112. The clerk shall keep the official city seal 1
and affix it to documents as required by law or ordinance.
   B.   Finances: The city clerk shall collect and receive revenues and other
monies for the city as provided by law or ordinance, and shall deposit all such
monies promptly with the city treasurer. The clerk shall keep proper books of
accounts and other financial records, properly recording all financial
transactions.
   C.   Other Powers And Duties: The clerk shall have all other powers and
duties prescribed by law or ordinance. (1986 Code § 1-7)
 
Notes
1 2. See definition of "official seal" in section
  1-3-2 of this title.
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER; FINANCE OFFICER 1
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Powers And Duties
1-6B-2: Bond Required
1-6B-3: Finance Officer
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 1-4-1A3 of this title for election, and subsections
  1-6-3A and B of this title for compensation.
1-6B-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Deposits And Disbursements; Records And Accounts: The city treasurer
shall receive all monies of the city paid to the treasurer in accordance with
law or ordinance, and shall deposit such monies in depositories designated by
the city council. Such monies shall be disbursed only in accordance with law.
The treasurer shall keep proper books of account and other financial records,
properly recording all financial transactions.
   B.   Other Powers And Duties: The city treasurer shall have such other
powers and duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. (1986 Code § 1-8)
1-6B-2: BOND REQUIRED 1 :
The city treasurer, before entering upon the duties of the office, shall
execute and file with the city clerk a good and sufficient bond in the sum of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), executed by some reliable fidelity and
surety company lawfully transacting business in the state of Oklahoma, said
bond and surety to be approved by the city council, and the bond being
conditioned for the faithful performance of duties of the city treasurer as
provided by ordinances of the city, and enjoined by law; provided, that the
city shall pay out of its general revenue the premium for such bond. (1986 Code
§ 1-9)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  1-6-4A of this title.
1-6B-3: FINANCE OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment: A finance officer shall be appointed by the mayor subject
to confirmation by the city council.
   B.   Duties: The finance officer shall invest the funds of the city, assist
the mayor and city administrator with the preparation of the city's annual
budget, monitor budget revenues and expenses, and, when required, advise the
city council on other financial activities.
   C.   Salary: The finance officer shall be paid a salary as determined by
ordinance by the city council. The finance officer shall be paid biweekly in
the same manner as all other city employees and shall be subject to salary
increases and decreases received by all other city employees. If the city
treasurer of the city of Vinita is appointed to perform the additional
administrative duties of the finance officer, the salary for performing said
additional duties shall not be subject to constitutional restrictions. (Ord.
3358, 5-15-2007)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Appointment; Term; Qualifications
1-6C-2: Powers And Duties
1-6C-3: Salary
1-6C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS:
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor and the appointment confirmed
by the city council, and shall hold office at the pleasure of the mayor and
council. He shall have such qualifications, powers, and duties as are
prescribed by law for city attorneys in cities of the first class. (1986 Code §
1-38)
1-6C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to advise the mayor and city council
and each member thereof, and all city officials, upon all law questions, and he
shall give opinions in writing when requested, and shall represent the city as
counsel in all litigation, in all courts, for or against the city, and shall
perform such other legal service in behalf of the city, its officers or
employees, as may be required. (1986 Code § 1-38)
1-6C-3: SALARY:
Salary of the city attorney shall be established by the mayor and city council,
and the salary shall compensate for all routine duties performed for the city;
provided, that whenever the mayor and council deem it necessary, they may
employ the city attorney, or any other attorney or law firm, for any particular
matter, at a fee to be agreed upon between them. (1986 Code § 1-39)
ARTICLE D. STREET COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Appointment
1-6D-2: Powers And Duties
1-6D-1: APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a street commissioner. The mayor, with approval of the city
council, may appoint a street superintendent and such other street employees as
they deem necessary. (1986 Code § 1-40)
1-6D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The street commissioner, street superintendent and other employees appointed as
provided in section
1-6D-1 of this article shall maintain and improve the streets and alleys of the
city; and shall place, maintain, and remove street signs and traffic signs and
devices as directed. The street commissioner shall have such powers, duties,
and functions as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance. (1986 Code § 1-41)
ARTICLE E. CODES ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Position Created; Appointment
1-6E-2: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
1-6E-3: Enforcement Actions; Appeals
1-6E-1: POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of the codes enforcement officer who shall
have such duties, powers and responsibilities as may be herein set forth or
hereinafter prescribed. The codes enforcement officer shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council (1986 Code § 1-91; amd.
2005 Code)
1-6E-2: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Building And Zoning Regulations: The codes enforcement officer shall
have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the plumbing inspector,
mechanical inspector, electrical inspector and the zoning enforcement officer,
including the authority to issue citations for the violation of the building,
plumbing, mechanical, electrical or zoning codes or ordinances.
   B.   Other Duties: The codes enforcement officer shall have such other
duties, responsibilities and powers, including the enforcement of other
ordinances of the city as the city council may from time to time provide by
ordinance or resolution. (1986 Code § 1-92)
1-6E-3: ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; APPEALS:
The codes enforcement officer shall take such action as may be reasonable to
enforcement of title 4, chapter 3 of this code relating to nuisances,
including, but not limited to, the enforcement of title 4, chapter 4 of this
code relating to the abatement of weeds and trash and dilapidated buildings.
(1986 Code § 1-93)
ARTICLE F. LOCAL ENERGY OFFICER; COMMITTEE
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Officer Designated; Appointment
1-6F-2: Committee Created; Membership
1-6F-3: Terms And Vacancies
1-6F-4: Meetings
1-6F-5: Compensation
1-6F-6: Officers
1-6F-7: Duties And Powers
1-6F-1: OFFICER DESIGNATED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Designation: There is hereby designated an employee within the existing
city staff, which shall be known as the local energy officer (LEO). This person
shall be the city engineer, building official, or someone with similar
technical training. (Ord. 2837, 11-4-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Appointment: The local energy officer shall be appointed by the mayor
upon approval by a majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 2837, 11-4-1991)
1-6F-2: COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a committee which shall be known as
the energy management committee.
   B.   Membership; Appointment: The energy management committee shall consist
of five (5) members to be appointed by a majority vote of the city council.
(Ord. 2837, 11-4-1991)
1-6F-3: TERMS AND VACANCIES:
   A.   Committee; Terms: The term of office of a member of the energy
management committee shall be two (2) years and shall end on the first Monday
of November. Of the original appointive members, one shall serve for one year,
two (2) shall serve for three (3) years, and two (2) shall serve for two (2)
years. The individual term of office of an original appointive member shall be
determined by the mayor in such manner as he shall select.
   B.   Filling Vacancies On Committee:
      1.   Any vacancy which occurs shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as the original appointment.
      2.   A member who shall miss three (3) consecutive regularly scheduled
meetings of the committee shall cease to be a member. The vacancy created shall
be filled by an appointment of a new member to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term by the mayor upon approval by a majority vote of the city
council.
   C.   Term Of LEO: The term of office for the LEO shall be established by the
mayor and approved by the majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 2837, 11-4-
1991)
1-6F-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Time And Place: The energy management committee and LEO shall hold
regular monthly meetings. The members of the committee shall determine the time
and place of such meetings.
   B.   Special Meetings: The local energy officer, the mayor or any three (3)
members of the energy management committee may call a special meeting.
   C.   Open Meetings: Except for instances wherein executive sessions are
authorized by state law, all meetings shall be open to the public with proper
notice given as required by the Oklahoma open meeting act 1 . (Ord. 2837, 11-4-
1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 25 OS § 301 et seq.
1-6F-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Committee Members: The members of the energy management committee shall
serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for such reasonable expense
incurred in the performance of their duties as allowed by the city council.
   B.   LEO: The LEO shall be compensated through his/her salary. (Ord. 2837,
11-4-1991)
1-6F-6: OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers; Term: The energy management committee shall elect from its
membership a vice chairman and a secretary to serve for terms of one year.
   B.   Chairman: The LEO shall serve as the chairman of the committee.
   C.   Secretary: The secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of the
board and certify to the chairman that proper notice has been given to the city
clerk and the public of all meetings. (Ord. 2837, 11-4-1991)
1-6F-7: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   Advisory Committee: The energy management committee shall act as an
advisory committee to the city council and mayor.
   B.   Copies Of Bills, Contracts: Copies of city utility bills, contracts,
franchise agreements, and records pertaining to expenditures shall be made
available to the committee upon request.
   C.   Develop Energy Management Program: The committee shall develop an
ongoing energy management program (EMP) to be implemented citywide as a method
of:
      1.   Reducing energy costs by identifying energy management opportunities
for which effective solutions are commercially available.
      2.   Developing and maintaining a regularly scheduled maintenance program
of all facilities.
      3.   Identifying and implementing "low cost/no cost measures" for proper
energy management.
      4.   Developing strategies for future energy management measures.
      5.   Conducting technology seminars with manufacturers to keep abreast of
current technology and future trends.
   D.   Monitoring Program: The committee shall monitor the EMP on an ongoing
basis to ensure the program is obtaining the desired objectives, forecast
savings, and policies of the program's current direction.
   E.   Quarterly Reports:
      1.   The committee shall prepare quarterly reports involving the status,
current objectives, goals, and accomplishments of the energy management
program.
      2.   The committee chairman shall present the quarterly reports to the
city council with recommendations for consideration of implementation.
   F.   Public Meetings: The committee shall hold two (2) public meetings
annually to obtain citizen input, and to inform the citizens of the current
status, objectives, goals, and accomplishments of the EMP.
   G.   Copies Of Minutes To Clerk: The committee secretary shall provide
copies of the minutes to the office of the city clerk within ten (10) days from
the date of their approval. (Ord. 2837, 11-4-1991)
ARTICLE G. CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Position Created
1-6G-2: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
1-6G-1: POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position and office of city administrator who shall
be a nonelected officer of the city of Vinita and who shall have such duties,
powers and responsibilities as may be herein set forth or hereinafter
prescribed. (Ord. 3275, 6-7-2005)
1-6G-2: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Attend staff meetings with all department heads to inform them of such
needed information as to coordination of projects being conducted or planned in
other departments within the city.
   B.   Gather information to make monthly reports to be given to the mayor and
council members on a monthly basis.
   C.   Gather information and related facts so the mayor and council members
can make evaluations of departments to establish needs and priorities that will
be placed in a format with other compiled data so that if outside funding, such
as state or federal monies are available, they may be applied for in the proper
manner.
   D.   Compile information so the mayor and council members can create and
maintain an affirmative action program for the city of Vinita.
   E.   Work with any group of citizens or committees designated by the mayor
and council members to keep both parties informed and to compile such
information as both would desire.
   F.   Assist the mayor, council members, city clerk and city attorney in
filing applications for federal or state assistance; after funding is
successful, work with those agencies and contractors until project is completed
and finalized.
   G.   Attend negotiations on behalf of the city administration with unions of
city employees.
   H.   Work with city department heads, city clerk, mayor and council members
in formulating, preparing and finalizing a budget for the city.
   I.   Coordinate with each department head in the screening of employees to
be hired and coordinate with the city attorney to make certain that federal
regulations dealing with hiring practices are complied with.
   J.   Work with departments of other governmental agencies and coordinate
with the city clerk, city attorney and city department heads to keep them
informed of new regulations, such as wage and hour laws and safety laws that
must be adhered to by cities.
   K.   Cooperate with outside engineering firms so that needed data may be
compiled on any project being conducted for the city. (Ord. 3275, 6-7-2005)
   L.   Approve necessary expenditures of the city for amounts up to five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per purchase. (Ord. 3396, 6-3-2008)
   M.   Exercise such duties as the mayor of the city of Vinita shall
specifically instruct and request.
   N.   Suspend for cause any nonunion employees of the city of Vinita.
   O.   Any such other duties, responsibilities and powers, including
enforcement of other ordinances of the city of Vinita, as the Vinita city
council may from time to time provide by ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 3275,
6-7-2005)
CHAPTER 7
CITY DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Water And Sewer Department
1-7-2: City-County Cooperative Health Department
1-7-3: Library Department
1-7-4: Park And Cemetery Department
1-7-5: City Hall Building And Maintenance Department
1-7-1: WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Superintendent; Employees: The water and sewer department of the city
shall consist of a superintendent of the water and sewer department who shall
be the business agent of the city in charge of such department. In addition to
the superintendent, there may be employed clerical help and such other
employees as may be authorized by the mayor and city council from time to time.
   B.   Duties: The water and sewer department, its officers, agents and
employees shall have supervision of the water utility of the city and of the
sewage disposal system of the city and shall be charged with the maintenance
and operation thereof, and shall perform such other duties as are now or may
hereafter be prescribed by the mayor and city council. (1986 Code § 1-42)
1-7-2: CITY-COUNTY COOPERATIVE HEALTH DEPARTMENT:
   A.   General Enforcement By State: Under the laws of the state of Oklahoma,
the Oklahoma state department of health has agreed to enforce ordinances of
cities and towns relating to the public health, welfare and safety.
   B.   County Enforcement For City: The Craig County health department
operating under the Oklahoma state health department has agreed to enforce the
ordinances of the city of Vinita, Oklahoma, relating to the public health,
welfare and safety.
   C.   City Delegation Of Authority To County:
      1.   It has been determined that for the best interest of the citizens of
the city of Vinita, Oklahoma, that the city of Vinita authorize and delegate
the Craig County health department to assist and enforce the ordinances of the
said city relating to the public health, welfare and safety.
      2.   The Craig County health department is hereby authorized and
delegated the authority to enforce all the ordinances of the city of Vinita,
Oklahoma, relating to the public health, welfare and safety. (1986 Code § 1-43)
1-7-3: LIBRARY DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Librarian; Employees: The city library department shall consist of the
city librarian and such additional employees as may be employed from time to
time when authorized by resolution or motion of the mayor and city council.
   B.   Duties: The library department, its officers and employees, shall
perform such duties as are now prescribed by state law, and in addition
thereto, such duties as may now or hereafter be imposed by the mayor and city
council. (1986 Code § 1-44)
1-7-4: PARK AND CEMETERY DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Departments Combined; Duties: The park and cemetery departments shall
have the same superintendent who shall work under the direction of the mayor
and city council and perform such duties as are now or may be hereafter
prescribed by ordinance.
   B.   Employees: The mayor and council may employ as many employees as they
deem appropriate to perform the maintenance and upkeep of the city parks and
cemetery.
   C.   Playground Supervisors: Playground supervisors may be temporarily
employed during the summer months, at the discretion of and upon motion by the
city council. (1986 Code §§ 1-45, 1-46; amd. 2005 Code)
1-7-5: CITY HALL BUILDING AND MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT:
The city hall building and maintenance department shall consist of a custodian
whose duties shall be to see to the maintenance and cleanliness of the city
hall building, and such other duties as may be directed from time to time by
the mayor and city council. Additional employees may be hired from time to time
as provided by resolution of the council. (1986 Code § 1-47)
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment; Terms Of Office; General Duties
1-7A-2: Review By Police Personnel Board; Probation
1-7A-3: Qualifications Of Candidates
1-7A-4: Reserve Police Officers
1-7A-5: Tenure Of Office
1-7A-6: Suspension Or Removal For Cause; Appeal
1-7A-7: Political Campaigns, Activities Restricted
1-7A-8: Unclaimed Property
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; GENERAL DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment: There shall be a chief of police 1 . The mayor, with
approval of the city council, shall appoint an assistant chief of police and
such other police officers as the mayor and council deem necessary, as provided
by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 9-105. (1986 Code § 1-11)
   B.   Term Of Office: The assistant chief of police and police officers shall
hold their offices until their respective successors have been appointed and
qualify, but may be removed at any time as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 9-118. (1986 Code § 1-11; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The chief of police, assistant chief of police, and
other police officers shall constitute the police department and shall have the
powers and duties prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 34-101, and other
provisions of law or by ordinance. (1986 Code § 1-12)
   D.   Police Officers Defined: Police officers are those persons in the
employment of the city who have been commissioned as police officers and who
are directly engaged in the enforcement of the ordinances of the city. (1986
Code § 1-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  1-4-1A2 of this title for election, and 1-6-3A and B for compensation.
1-7A-2: REVIEW BY POLICE PERSONNEL BOARD; PROBATION:
   A.   Board Recommendation: Names of potential appointees of the police
department of the city shall, upon recommendations of the chief of police, be
submitted to the police personnel board for approval and recommendation and
then be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council by a majority
vote thereof, including the vote of the mayor. (1986 Code § 1-14; amd. 2005
Code)
   B.   Probationary Period: Members so appointed shall serve on probation for
a period of one year from the time of such appointment, during which time the
chief of police, upon the confirmation of the police personnel board, may
terminate the appointment of such probationary member if, upon observation,
investigation or consideration of performance of duty, he shall be deemed
unsatisfactory. (1986 Code § 1-14)
1-7A-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF CANDIDATES:
Candidates for appointment to the position of police officer for the city shall
be qualified as follows:
   A.   Criminal Background: Such candidate shall not have been guilty of any
felony or crime involving moral turpitude (unless granted a full pardon).
   B.   Evaluation And Certification: No person shall receive a permanent
appointment as a police officer in the city unless:
      1.   He has undergone evaluation similar to the Minnesota multiphasic
personality inventory or its equivalent (as determined by the council on law
enforcement education and training [CLEET]); and
      2.   He has been awarded a certificate, attesting to his satisfactory
completion of a basic police course of not less than three hundred (300) hours
of accredited instruction from said council (CLEET) or curriculum or course of
study approved by said council (CLEET). The "council (CLEET)" shall be defined
as the council on law enforcement, education and training. A reserve officer
shall have not less than one hundred twenty (120) hours of instruction.
   C.   Time Limit For Certification: Every person who is not a holder of such
certificate and is duly appointed as a member of the police force shall hold
such position on a temporary basis only, and shall, within one year from the
date of appointment, qualify as required by this section or forfeit such
position. In computing the one year, all service shall be cumulative from date
of first appointment as a police officer of the City. The City Council may
extend the time requirement for good cause. (1986 Code § 1-15; amd. 2005 Code)
1-7A-4: RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: In addition to regular full time police officers, reserve
police officers may also be appointed by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Reserve officers shall have the powers, duties and
functions as set forth in law or ordinance for regular full time police
officers.
   C.   Part Time Basis: A reserve officer shall serve on a part time basis and
shall perform his duties only while on authorized duty and for not more than
twenty five (25) hours per calendar week.
   D.   Requirements: Such reserve officer must meet the minimum requirements
of section
1-7A-3 of this article and 70 Oklahoma Statutes section 3311. (1986 Code § 1-
16)
1-7A-5: TENURE OF OFFICE:
The police officers of the City shall hold their respective offices and
positions regardless of change of City officials or City administration unless
removed or discharged for cause. No police officer employed by the City shall
be demoted except for cause.
   A.   Notice Of Cause; Hearing; Determination: All members of the Police
Department who are suspended or removed from office may request to be notified
of the specific cause therefor in writing within three (3) days after such
suspension or removal from office. Within ten (10) days from such suspension or
removal, the person affected may make a written request to the City Clerk for a
hearing before the Mayor and City Council, and the Mayor and City Council shall
hold a public hearing within ten (10) days of the filing of the request
therefor. If after hearing, the City Council shall find that cause has not been
shown for the suspension, removal from office or discharge, it shall order the
person restored to his former position without loss of pay.
   B.   Action To Suspend Or Remove:
      1.   If the City Council by a majority vote shall find that cause has
been shown, it may order the removal, suspension or discharge of such persons,
or may, in their discretion, discipline such persons by a suspension of a
period of not more than ninety (90) days and a fine of an amount not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both. The accused may represent himself or
appear by counsel. (1986 Code § 1-17; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   The Chief of Police may, for misconduct, suspend any member of the
Police Department without pay for a period not to exceed ten (10) days for one
offense, and not to exceed twenty (20) days in any one calendar year, and shall
notify the City Council in writing of his action. (1986 Code § 1-17)
   C.   Nondiscrimination: No police officer shall be suspended or removed from
office because of his race, creed or color, gender, age, religious or political
beliefs, except when such persons advocate or belong to any organization which
advocates the overthrow of the government by force or violence. (1986 Code § 1-
17; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Right To Hearing Before Court: No action of the City Council shall be
construed to deny any police officer of his right to file a proper case for
hearing before any court of general jurisdiction. (1986 Code § 1-17)
1-7A-6: SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL FOR CAUSE; APPEAL:
Any member of the police force who is removed, suspended or separated from the
police force for cause as provided herein shall have the right of appeal to the
District Court of Craig County, Oklahoma, or as otherwise provided by law or
contract. (1986 Code § 1-18)
1-7A-7: POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS, ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Participation In Campaign: No police officer of the City shall take
part in any political campaign, except to vote, while on duty or in uniform and
no police officer shall use his official position to further the interest of
any political candidate, faction, or party. (Ord. 3696, 2-5-2019)
1-7A-8: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Complete Record Required: All personal property which comes into the
possession of any police officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off
the person or out of the possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or
charged with, being a criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person
laying claim thereto, shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof,
delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police. The Chief shall, in a
permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a record sufficient to
identify the property, with the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof,
the name of the person from whom it was taken and the place where it was found;
and the record shall also disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the
date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it
was sold. (1986 Code § 17-1)
   B.   Disposition Of Property:
      1.   The Chief of Police is authorized to sell personal property other
than money or legal tender of the United States, which comes into his
possession if:
         a.   The owner of the personal property is unknown or has not claimed
the property; and
         b.   The property has been in the custody of the Chief of Police for
at least six (6) months; and
         c.   The property or any part thereof is no longer needed to be held
as evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any litigation.
      2.   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the District Court
of Craig County requesting the authority of such court to conduct a sale of
such personal property. The Chief of Police shall attach to its application a
list describing the property including any identifying numbers and marks, the
dates that property came into his possession, and the name of the owner and his
address, if known. The court shall set said application for hearing not less
than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days after the filing of said
application.
      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing, notice of said
hearing shall be sent by certified mail to each owner at his address as listed
in said application. Said notice shall contain a brief description of the
property of said owner and the place and date of the hearing. Said notice shall
be posted at the assigned place for posting of Municipal notices and at two (2)
other public places in the City.
      4.   If no owner appears and establishes ownership of said property at
the hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the Chief of Police to
sell said personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at least five
(5) days' notice of such sale has been published. The Chief of Police shall
make a record of said sale and the order of the court confirming said sale
shall vest title to said property in the purchaser. After payment of court
costs and other expenses, the remainder of money received from the sale of said
property shall be deposited in the City General Fund.
      5.   All monies or legal tender of the United States which has come into
the possession of the Chief of Police pursuant to the circumstances provided
for in subsection B1 of this section shall be transferred by the Chief of
Police to the City Clerk for deposit in the City General Fund. Prior to any
such transfer, the Chief of Police shall file an application in the District
Court requesting the court to enter an order authorizing him to transfer said
property for deposit in the City General Fund. The application shall describe
the money or legal tender, any serial numbers, the date the same came into his
possession, and the name of the owner and his address, if known. Upon filing
the application which may be joined with an application as described in
subsection B2 of this section, a hearing shall be set not less than ten (10)
days nor more than twenty (20) days from the date of filing of such
application. Notice of said hearing shall be given as provided for in
subsection B3 of this section. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to said money or legal tender, the court
shall order the same to be deposited in the City General Fund. The notice may
be combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided for in
subsection B2 of this section. If no one appears to claim and prove ownership
to said money or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall order the same to
be transferred to the City General Fund as provided in this subsection.
      6.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of any
kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law. By order of
the court, any such property filed as an exhibit or held by the City shall be
destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant to the conditions prescribed in such
order. (1986 Code § 17-2)
   C.   Property Found By Private Person: Any personal property found by a
person other than a public official or employee, which is delivered to any
police officer for identification, if not claimed or identified within thirty
(30) days, shall, within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by
the finder, be returned to him, and a record of such disposal made thereof. If
the finder does not request return of the property to him within such
additional ten (10) days, then the Chief of Police shall sell the property as
if it had been found by a public official or employee, or, on instruction by
the Mayor, deliver it to some department or office of the City government for
its use. The finder of a thing is entitled to compensation for all expenses
necessarily incurred by him for its preservation, and for any other service
necessarily performed by him about it, and to a reasonable reward for keeping
it. If the finder knows or suspects who the owner is, he must, with reasonable
diligence, give notice to him of the finding; and if he fails to do so, he is
liable in damages to the owner, and has no claim to any reward offered by him
for the recovery of the thing, or to any compensation for his trouble or
expenses. (1986 Code § 17-3)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Department Created
1-7B-2: Appointment And Removal
1-7B-3: Fire Chief And Assistant Fire Chief
1-7B-4: Compensation
1-7B-5: Company Officers
1-7B-6: New Members; Probation
1-7B-7: Rules And Regulations; Members
1-7B-8: Suspension Of Firefighters
1-7B-9: Inspection And Prevention Of Fires
1-7B-10: Fire Protection Outside City
1-7B-11: Protection And Repair Of Apparatus
1-7B-12: Refusing To Obey Orders At Fires
1-7B-13: Right Of Way On Streets
1-7B-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There shall be a fire department which shall consist of a chief, an assistant
chief, and such other personnel as the city council may authorize. (1986 Code §
1-20)
1-7B-2: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Appointment: The members of the fire department shall, on approval of
the chief of the fire department, be appointed in the manner provided by law
for the appointment of municipal employees.
   B.   Terms; Removal; Hearing: The chief, assistant chief, and firefighters
shall serve for indefinite terms, subject to removal for good and sufficient
cause by the mayor and city council, after a hearing held after ten (10) days'
notice. (1986 Code § 1-21)
1-7B-3: FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Administration; Supervision:
      1.   The city shall have a full time fire chief whose primary duties
shall be the administration of the fire department in accordance with the
policies and procedures prescribed by the city council and mayor.
      2.   The fire department shall be under the direction and control of the
fire chief who shall not serve as fire chief and police chief.
   B.   Qualifications: The fire chief shall have had at least three (3) years'
actual experience as a paid firefighter.
   C.   Duties Of Chief: The fire chief:
      1.   Shall be at the head of the department, subject to the laws of the
state of Oklahoma, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations herein
adopted.
      2.   Shall be held responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him.
      3.   May inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the department,
the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice
each year.
      4.   Shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention
and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all
members.
      5.   Shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers
and members in the performance of their duties.
      6.   Shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the department.
      7.   Shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case. (1986 Code § 1-22)
      8.   Shall file the appropriate activity report forms with the office of
the state fire marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The report forms
designed by the state fire marshal shall include, but not be limited to, the
amount of property and vehicle fire loss, types of fires, inspections and
investigations. The report shall include notification of all fire related
civilian deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction, and of firefighter
deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty
requiring the services of a hospital or physician or both. (1986 Code § 1-22;
amd. 2005 Code)
      9.   Shall keep a record of all fires occurring within the city in a
suitable book, to be provided for that purpose, showing the estimated value of
the loss or damage to property, the amount of insurance, the cause and origin
of fire, and the names of the firefighters attending, and the expenses incurred
to the department thereby. (1986 Code § 1-35)
      10.   Shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all property
belonging to the fire department, and shall, at the expiration of his term,
turn over such inventory and all such property to his successor, together with
all books, records, reports, and data of such department. (1986 Code § 1-36)
   D.   Duties Of Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant
chief on duty shall command the department and shall have the full powers and
responsibilities of the chief. (1986 Code § 1-23)
1-7B-4: COMPENSATION:
The chief, assistant chief and each firefighter shall receive such compensation
as may be determined by the city council. (1986 Code § 1-37)
1-7B-5: COMPANY OFFICERS:
   A.   Basis For Selection: The company officers shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
      1.   Their knowledge of firefighting.
      2.   Their ability to lead firefighters.
      3.   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1986 Code § 1-24)
   B.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the fire department shall be
secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting.
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting.
      3.   Collecting the monies due the department by the members. (1986 Code
§ 1-25)
1-7B-6: NEW MEMBERS; PROBATION:
   A.   Term Of Probation: All new members shall be on probation for one year
after their appointment.
   B.   Department Approval: New volunteer members, upon completion of their
probation period, must be approved by the majority of the fire department.
(1986 Code § 1-26)
1-7B-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS; MEMBERS:
The volunteer fire department shall be subject to the following rules and
regulations which shall be incorporated in the bylaws of the department:
   A.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   Firefighters are required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in
succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will
be dropped from the fire department rolls.
   E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the city for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the chief.
   F.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him will be dropped.
   G.   Any volunteer member of the fire department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter.
      2.   Any act of insubordination.
      3.   Neglect of duty.
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department.
      5.   Conviction of a felony. (1986 Code § 1-27)
1-7B-8: SUSPENSION OF FIREFIGHTERS:
The chief shall have the power and authority to suspend any firefighter of the
department for drunkenness, neglect of duty, disobedience of orders, or for
other good cause, and he shall, immediately after such suspension, report the
same to the mayor in writing, stating the reasons for such suspension for the
action by the mayor and city council. (1986 Code § 1-28)
1-7B-9: INSPECTION AND PREVENTION OF FIRES:
   A.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The chief shall adopt all prudent
measures for the prevention of fires, and whenever he has reasons to believe
that the safety of property demands it, he and his authorized representatives
shall have reasonable access in the daytime to any house, building or premises
in the city to examine fireplaces, flues or other property or apparatus likely
to cause fire; also places where ashes, gunpowder, straw, paper, shavings, hay,
or other combustible or inflammable materials may be deposited, and shall give
directions for the alteration or removal of the same, as he shall deem proper;
and such directions shall be obeyed and complied with by the person so directed
immediately at their expense. (1986 Code § 1-33)
   B.   Inspection Of Public Places: The chief shall have full power and
authority, and he is hereby enjoined, to enter all theaters, shows, show houses
or tents, and public halls and buildings in the city where scenery, drop
curtains, and stage fittings are used during any performance therein and to
require every possible precaution to be taken to prevent fire, and to guard the
public from panic therein. (1986 Code § 1-34)
1-7B-10: FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Right To Enter Into Contracts: The city is hereby authorized and
empowered to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms,
private corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state of
Oklahoma for fire protection outside the corporate limits of the city, and to
contract to provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and
municipal subdivisions of the state. (1986 Code § 8-21)
   B.   Contract Rate; Monies To General Fund Budget:
      1.   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation, or association, for outside aid, or mutual aid for
fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, or political subdivision to the city for such fire
apparatus and personnel at a rate not less than four hundred fifty dollars
($450.00) per occurrence or run of the fire department. (Ord. 3459, 2-16-2010)
      2.   All monies received from said calls shall go into the general fund
to be used in the general fund budget in the general operation of the city.
(1986 Code § 8-22; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Authority To Answer Calls: The fire department of the city is hereby
authorized to answer outside fire calls from the owner of the property unless,
in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of
another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways,
or other physical conditions. (1986 Code § 8-23)
   D.   Firefighters' Benefits: All firefighters of the fire department of the
city attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the
corporate limits of the city, as herein provided, shall be considered as
serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within
the corporate limits of the city, and said firefighters shall be entitled to
all the benefits of any firefighters' pension and relief fund in the same
manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done within the
corporate limits of the city. (1986 Code § 8-24)
   E.   Department Considered Agent Of State: The fire department of the city
answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire prevention services
outside the corporate limits of the city shall be considered as an agent of the
state of Oklahoma, and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and
the city shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this section. (1986 Code
§ 8-25)
   F.   Right Of Way Of Equipment: All motorized equipment of the fire
department of the city shall have the right of way over all other commercial
and pleasure vehicles. (1986 Code § 8-26)
1-7B-11: PROTECTION AND REPAIR OF APPARATUS:
   A.   Protection: It shall be unlawful for any person, without authority, to
take, remove, or to in any manner disturb, molest, or interfere with any
hydrants, hose, ladder or any apparatus or tools to be used in connection with
the fire department. (1986 Code § 1-31; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Repair: The chief shall report to the city council any necessary
repairs, alterations or improvements needed by the fire department, with an
estimate of their probable cost and shall superintend the making of such
repairs, alterations and improvements, and, in case any apparatus shall become
disabled for immediate use, he shall repair the same and report his action to
the city council. (1986 Code § 1-32)
1-7B-12: REFUSING TO OBEY ORDERS AT FIRES:
It shall be the duty of every person at a fire to observe and obey the lawful
orders of any public officer or firefighter of the city, and to offer no
resistance to, or in anywise interfere with said officer and firefighter, or
any company of firefighters, in the performance of their duties at any fire
within the limits of the city. (1986 Code § 1-29)
1-7B-13: RIGHT OF WAY ON STREETS:
At every fire alarm, it shall be the duty of all persons driving, or in charge
of, any animal, wagon, carriage, automobile or other vehicle in any street,
alley or other way in the city upon which the fire apparatus belonging to the
fire department may go, to yield immediately the right of way so as not to
obstruct or delay the fire department, or any person in attendance at any fire.
The gong or siren attached to the fire apparatus shall be sounded and emergency
lights shall be turned on and operating from the time of leaving the fire
station until the arrival at the fire. (1986 Code § 1-30; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Deposit Of City Funds
1-8-2: Purchasing
1-8-3: Claims Against City
1-8-4: Penalty
1-8-1: DEPOSIT OF CITY FUNDS:
   A.   Deposit By Treasurer; Designation Of City Depositories: The city
treasurer shall deposit daily all the funds and monies of whatever kind that
shall come into his possession by virtue of his office as such city treasurer,
in his name as city treasurer, in one or more responsible banks located in the
city and designated by the city council as such depositories. Provided, that
there shall not be deposited in any one bank at any one time a greater amount
of such funds than the capital stock of such bank. Such bank or banks shall
receive all monies, drafts or checks, at par, and pay interest on the average
daily balance at such rate as may be agreed upon between such banks and the
city council and shall credit the same monthly to the account of the city
treasurer. (1986 Code § 7-22)
   B.   Deposit Records: The city treasurer shall, when making up his deposit
for the banks, make duplicate tickets for such deposit and file the same with
the city clerk, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to charge the bank
designated as the depository of public monies with all monies deposited by the
city treasurer, and credit the city treasurer with such amount deposited. (1986
Code § 7-23)
   C.   Monthly Bank Statements: Such bank or banks shall, at the end of each
month, transmit to the city clerk a statement of the amounts received from the
city treasurer and the amounts paid out by it or them and for what purpose.
(1986 Code § 7-24)
   D.   Bonds Of Depositories: The city depository or depositories shall secure
the city for all deposits by giving a good and sufficient bond with some surety
company or companies to be approved by the city council. Said bond shall be for
double the sum of the probable maximum deposits of the city at any one time
with said depository or depositories and a new bond may be exacted by the city
council at any time when the existing bond shall be deemed insufficient, but
until such bond or bonds are given, the city treasurer shall be liable on his
bond for the loss of any money so deposited. (1986 Code § 7-25)
1-8-2: PURCHASING:
No purchase or contract shall be made unless in compliance with 62 Oklahoma
Statutes section 310.1 et seq. (1986 Code § 7-26)
1-8-3: CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
No payroll or other claim shall be made unless in compliance with 62 Oklahoma
Statutes section 304.1 et seq., or the governmental tort claims, or such other
statute or provisions allowing a claim against the city. (1986 Code § 7-27)
1-8-4: PENALTY:
Any officer, agent or employee who wilfully and knowingly violates the
provisions of this chapter or of any code adopted herein, or any legal order or
regulation made pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this title. Each day upon which a violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1986 Code § 7-28; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Court Created
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-9-4: Judge Of Municipal Court
1-9-5: Change Of Venue; Disqualifications
1-9-6: Chief Of Police
1-9-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-9-8: Prosecuting Officer, City Attorney
1-9-9: Contempt Of Court
1-9-10: Complaints
1-9-11: Traffic Violations; Procedure
1-9-12: Fines For Traffic Violations And Nontraffic Offenses
1-9-13: Maximum Fine And Imprisonment
1-9-14: Costs To Defendant
1-9-15: Jury Trials
1-9-16: Summons
1-9-17: Warrant Of Arrest
1-9-18: Bail
1-9-19: Arraignment
1-9-20: Court Procedure
1-9-21: Imprisonment
1-9-22: Witnesses
1-9-23: Acquittal
1-9-24: Suspended Sentence
1-9-25: Work Performed By Prisoners
1-9-26: Community Service
1-9-1: COURT CREATED:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on January 21,
1969, and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of
this chapter and the provisions of any other ordinance of the city, the
provisions of this chapter shall control. Said court shall be operative on and
after February 1, 1969. (1986 Code § 12-1)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall mean:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the city.
CLERK: The clerk of the city, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the city clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city, including the mayor under those
circumstances where he is entitled to vote under the laws of the state of
Oklahoma, and ordinances of the city.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, aforesaid, including any acting judge
or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state, and
this chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of the city is situated. (1986 Code § 12-2;
amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-3: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1986 Code § 12-3)
1-9-4: JUDGE OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications:
      1.   There shall be one judge of the court. A judge must be duly licensed
to practice law in the state of Oklahoma, except as provided herein. He may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he shall refrain from
accepting employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or arising out of
facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of
the court pending therein, or which might become the subject of proceedings
therein. He must be a resident of the county in which the city is located or in
an adjacent county, or maintain a permanent office therein. Further, any
suitable person residing in the city or within twenty (20) miles of the
boundaries of the city who is not a licensed attorney may be appointed to serve
as judge as provided by law, but any trial shall be to the court, and the court
may not impose a fine of more than fifty dollars ($50.00) and may not order the
defendant imprisoned except for the nonpayment of fines or costs, or both.
(1986 Code § 12-4)
      2.   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the
consent of the governing body. (1986 Code § 12-8)
   B.   Term Of Office: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on February 1 in each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (1986 Code § 12-5)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed, for each judge of the court,
an alternate judge, possessed of the same qualifications as a municipal judge.
His appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is
absent from the court, unable to act as judge or disqualified from acting as
judge in the case. (1986 Code § 12-6)
   D.   Acting Judge: If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall
appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for
the judge, who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition
of pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (1986 Code § 12-7)
   E.   Salaries:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge shall
receive a monthly salary in such amount as the governing body shall determine,
to be paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the city.
      2.   An acting judge shall be paid the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for
each day devoted to the performance of this duty or such other amount as the
governing body shall determine, except that, for any month, the total payments
so calculated shall not exceed the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits.
An acting judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified
as the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. (1986 Code § 12-9; amd. 2005
Code)
   F.   Removal:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the governing
body, for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of the state for
the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by: a) the mayor; or b) twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of
the city; in the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of
the petitioners. The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter,
and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be
served personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At
the hearing, the judge shall be entitled:
         a.   To representation by counsel;
         b.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him; and
         c.   To have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      2.   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedure act governing individual proceedings (75
Oklahoma Statutes sections 309 through 317 and any amendments or additions
thereto in effect at the time of the hearing) shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes by a
majority of all members of the governing body in favor of such removal. (1986
Code § 12-10)
   G.   Vacancies:
      1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies; or
         b.   Resigns; or
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal procedure has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made. (1986 Code § 12-11)
   H.   Prescribe Rules: The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct
of the business of the court. (1986 Code § 12-17)
1-9-5: CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATIONS:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but the
judge before whom the case is pending may be disqualified from sitting under
the terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a
judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an acting judge. (1986 Code
§ 12-12)
1-9-6: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the chief of police of the city, who shall be the principal officer of the
court. The chief of police shall execute any writs or other processes directed
to him, except as herein otherwise provided, and such duty may be performed by
any members of the police force of the city. The chief of police shall be ex
officio marshal of the court. (1986 Code § 12-13)
1-9-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Functions: The municipal clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be
the clerk of the court.
      1.   He shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court
and in preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      2.   He shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
      3.   He shall enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the
dockets of the court.
      4.   He shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct.
      5.   He shall receive and receipt for fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits
and sums of money payable to the court.
      6.   The court clerk shall make duplicate receipts for the fees, fines,
and forfeitures collected by him, one copy of which shall be retained by the
city treasurer together with a detailed statement of all costs, the style of
the case in which they were paid, and the name of the party paying the same.
      7.   He shall pay to the city treasurer, on the first and the fifteenth
days of each month, all monies so received by him, except such special deposits
or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him for special purposes.
   B.   Disposition Of Funds: All monies received by the city treasurer shall
be placed in the general fund of the city, or in such other fund as the
governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed. (1986 Code § 12-14)
   C.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the governing body
for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the clerk of the city and
retained in the municipal archives. (1986 Code § 12-16)
1-9-8: PROSECUTING OFFICER, CITY ATTORNEY:
The attorney for the city, or his duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the court. The prosecutor shall have full power to
prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the city and shall be
authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in
error and review from this court to any other courts of the state, and to
represent the City in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court.
(1986 Code § 12-15)
1-9-9: CONTEMPT OF COURT:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the court
may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against processes issued by him, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this State.
(1986 Code § 12-18)
1-9-10: COMPLAINTS:
All prosecutions commenced in the Municipal Court shall be by complaint which
shall be subscribed by the person making the complaint and shall be verified
before a Judge, the Court Clerk, a Deputy Court Clerk, or a Police Officer. No
warrant for arrest shall be issued until the complaint has been approved by the
Judge of the Municipal Court. All prosecutions for the violation of Municipal
ordinances shall be styled, "The City of Vinita, Oklahoma, vs. (naming person
or persons charged)". (1986 Code § 12-19)
1-9-11: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   City Resident: If a resident of the City is arrested for the violation
of any ordinance, traffic or nontraffic, by a law enforcement officer, the
officer shall immediately release said person if the person acknowledges
receipt of a citation by signing it, unless it reasonably appears to the
officer that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to
property if released, that the person will not appear in response to the
citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property. If said person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
   B.   Conditions For Release: Any person arrested by a law enforcement
officer for violation of a Municipal traffic ordinance or regulation may be
released after:
      1.   Posting cash bail; or
      2.   Depositing with the arresting office a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate. (1986 Code § 12-20; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Parking Violation; Citation Attached To Vehicle: If the alleged offense
be a violation of an ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of
vehicles, including any regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the
operator be not present, the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a
place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the operator, a citation with
such variation as the circumstances require. The operator of the vehicle shall
be under the same obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been
issued to him personally. (1986 Code § 12-20)
1-9-12: FINES FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS AND NONTRAFFIC OFFENSES:
   A.   Fines Established: A person cited for traffic or nontraffic violations
may elect to pay a fine in the Municipal Court according to the following
schedule; provided however, said schedule may be amended by ordinance or
resolution from time to time:
Violation Code Section Amount Of Fine
Violation                            Code Section Amount Of Fine
Animals (title 5, chapter 3):                     
 Dog at large                       5-3-4        $150.00
 Dog tag, failure to possess        5-3-2A       100.00
 Exhibiting menacing behavior       5-3-16       150.00
 Vicious animal, harboring          5-3-16       750.00
General offenses (title 5, chapter                
1, articles A through F):
 Assault and battery                5-1D-1       750.00
 Disturbing the peace               5-1C-3       450.00
 Larceny, petit larceny, concealing 5-1E-1       400.00
  stolen property
 Resisting arrest                   5-1F-2       750.00
Liquor (title 3, chapter 3, articles              
A and B):
 Minor in possession of liquor      3-3A-11B     150.00
 Minor in possession of low point   3-3B-6B      150.00
  beer
 Public drunk                       3-3A-13      100.00
 Transporting an open container of  3-3A-12      300.00
  liquor
 Transporting an open container of  3-3B-5       200.00
  low point beer
Miscellaneous:                                    
 Burning trash in City              4-7-2        200.00
 Curfew violation                   5-2-1A       100.00
 Littering                          4-3-9        300.00
 Possession of controlled dangerous             750.00
  substance
 Possession of marijuana                        750.00
 Possession of paraphernalia                    750.00
 Pseudoephedrine, attempt to                    500.00
  purchase over 9 grams
 Use of tobacco and vapor products  7-8-1        10.00
  prohibited on Municipal property
Traffic (title 6):                                
 Accident, leaving scene of         6-1-3        500.00
 Backing, improper                  6-1-10       100.00
 Car tag, failure to pay taxes due              200.00
  State
 Child restraint, failure to use                146.00
 Driver's license:                               
  Driving under suspension                     500.00
  Failure to possess                           500.00
  Violation of restriction on                  100.00
 Driving while ability impaired                 650.00
 Driving while intoxicated                      750.00
 Eluding, attempting to             6-1-21B      750.00
 Exhaust, improper                              100.00
 Helmet or eye protection device,   6-8-12C2, C7 100.00
  failure to use
 Insurance:                                      
  Failure to carry insurance       6-1-2        300.00
    verification form
  Failure to comply with           6-1-2        300.00
    compulsory insurance law
  Intoxicated person having actual
 physical control of a motor                    750.00
  vehicle
 Motor vehicle, defective                       150.00
 Motor vehicle operation, allowing  6-1-21A      450.00
  unauthorized person to operate
 One-way street, going wrong way    6-5-1        100.00
 Parking in handicap zone           6-4-13       100.00
 Reckless driving                               750.00
 School bus, failure to stop for,               400.00
  loading or unloading
 Seatbelt, failure to wear                      20.00
 Speeding violations:                            
  Operating motor vehicle at a     6-1-4A       200.00
    speed not reasonable and proper
  School zone violations:                       
   1 - 10 mph over limit                      150.00
   11 - 20 mph over limit                     225.00
   21 or more mph over limit                  300.00
  Speeding:                                     
   1 - 10 mph over limit                      100.00
   11 - 15 mph over limit                     150.00
   16 - 20 mph over limit                     200.00
   21 or more mph over limit                  250.00
  Speeding in construction zone                Double amount of normal fines
 Traffic control device, disobeying 6-3-3        $200.00
 Turn, improper                     6-5-2        100.00
 Yield, failure to                  6-5-2        200.00
 
(Ord. 3664, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 3708, 8-6-2019)
All other offenses may be bonded by a fine in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus court costs then in force and effect.
In addition to a fine, each case is to have collected court costs and penalty
assessments in the maximum amount then permitted by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 27-126, as amended, or otherwise imposed by State law.
   B.   Rules; Payment Of Fine: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect
this section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of the cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has
elected to pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall
proceed under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3664, 7-18-2017)
1-9-13: MAXIMUM FINE AND IMPRISONMENT:
The maximum fine for each violation shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), not including costs, or imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days,
or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 3664, 7-18-2017)
1-9-14: COSTS TO DEFENDANT:
   A.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax
the costs and penalty assessments to the defendant in the maximum amount then
permitted by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-126, as amended, or otherwise
imposed by State law, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, all of
which the defendant shall pay, in addition to a fine that may be imposed.
   B.   In addition to the costs imposed by subsection A of this section, the
following fees may be assessed to the defendant:
 
Administrative fee             $500.00
Compact letter fee             20.00
Deferral fee                   150.00
Warrant fee, failure to appear 150.00
Warrant fee, failure to pay    10.00
 
   (Ord. 3664, 7-18-2017)
1-9-15: JURY TRIALS:
   A.   Conditions For Trial; Waiver: In all prosecutions for violations of
ordinances punishable by fine of more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or by
imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless
waived by the defendant and City. In prosecution for all other offenses, or in
cases wherein a jury trial is waived, trial shall be to the court. (Ord. 3132,
7-18-2000; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Request For Jurors: Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial
of cases by jury, the Judge shall request, in writing, the Presiding Judge of
the District Court for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated
number of jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to
be drawn from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing Statutes of the
State, and to be certified by the Clerk of the District Court to the Judge of
the Municipal Court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be
certified and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the
calendar begins. If it is anticipated that the completion of the calendar will
require more than two (2) weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the
number required for each two (2) week period, as provided by law for the
drawing of jurors for the District Court. Additional drawing of other names
also may be requested by the Judge, when necessary, in accordance with the law
for such additional drawings in the District Court. If, in the future,
provisions of the law respecting the drawing of jury lists for the District
Court are changed, the Judge shall take such steps, in requesting jury lists
for the court, as are necessary to comply with the State law. (1986 Code § 12-
33)
   C.   Jury Summons:
      1.   Upon receipt of the jury list, the Clerk of the Court shall cause a
summons substantially in the following form to be issued and served upon each
person on the list:
   STATE OF OKLAHOMA, COUNTY OF CRAIG, SS:
To (Name of juror) GREETING: You are hereby summoned to appear in the municipal
court for the City of Vinita, Oklahoma, to be held at (specify the address,
room number, etc.) on the      day of               , 20     , at the hour of
(specify hour) to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in such
service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this      day of             ,
20     .
                                                    
         Clerk of the Municipal Court
         of Vinita, Oklahoma
      (Seal of Court)
(1986 Code § 12-34; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Service shall be made, as the Judge may prescribe by rule or direct
by order, either in person upon the juror by the Chief of Police or by any
member of the police force of the City, or by the Clerk of the Court, through
certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in the jury list,
with request for a personally signed receipt. In any proceeding wherein service
of summons by mail is an issue, evidence of the due mailing of the summons by
the Clerk or a member of his staff and the presentation of an official postal
return receipt purportedly signed by the addressee shall be prima facie
evidence that the summons was duly received by the addressee and, therefore,
that he was properly served therewith. (1986 Code § 12-34)
   D.   Composition Of Jury: A jury in the court shall consist of six (6)
jurors, good and lawful men or women, citizens of Craig County, possessing the
qualifications of jurors in district court. (1986 Code § 12-35)
   E.   Vote Of Jury: A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five
(5) jurors, except as otherwise provided by law. (1986 Code § 12-36)
   F.   Judicial Notice Of Statutes, Ordinances: The court shall take judicial
notice of state statutes and the ordinances of the city. (1986 Code § 12-37)
   G.   Compensation Of Jurors: Jurors shall receive for their services the sum
of twenty dollars ($20.00) per day, plus mileage at the rate of thirty six
cents ($0.36) per mile for each mile necessarily traveled by the most direct
route in going to and from the court from their respective places of residence.
The claims for such compensation shall show the location of the juror's
residence and the route and miles traveled, and must be verified as other
claims against the city are verified. Jurors shall be paid out of the general
funds of the city. (1986 Code § 12-38; amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-16: SUMMONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Summons: Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation
of this code, or an ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a
warrant of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a
citation or has been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a
summons, naming the person charged, specifying his address or place of
residence, if known, stating the offense with which he is charged and giving
him notice to answer the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a
provision for the official return of the summons, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Of Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as
provided by this chapter. (1986 Code § 12-22)
1-9-17: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the judge,
there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the following form:
The City of Vinita to the chief of police of Vinita, Oklahoma. Complaint upon
oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the offense of
(naming the offense in particular by general terms) has been committed and
accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to
arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring (insert him, her, or them,
as appropriate) to (naming the place).
WITNESS my hand this        day of              , 20     .
                                                 
         Judge of the Municipal Court
         of Vinita, Oklahoma
(1986 Code § 12-23; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It shall be the duty of the aforesaid chief of
police, personally, or through a duly constituted member of the police force of
the city, or through any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to
execute said warrant as promptly as possible.
   C.   Serving Within Craig County: An arrest warrant issued by the court can
be served any place in Craig County. (1986 Code § 12-23)
1-9-18: BAIL:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any other time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by the judge, who shall prescribe
appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and for the release on one's
own recognizance. In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions of
emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules can authorize the chief
of police, or his designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond,
not more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for such
offense charged. The chief of police or his designated representative is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the judge, to
release a resident of Vinita on his own recognizance. (1986 Code § 12-24)
1-9-19: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the prosecuting attorney, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. (1986 Code § 12-25)
1-9-20: COURT PROCEDURE:
Except as otherwise provided for by law, the code of procedure in the municipal
court shall be the same as is provided for by law for the trial of
misdemeanors, including rules duly promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma
and the court of criminal appeals of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 12-26)
1-9-21: IMPRISONMENT:
   A.   Refusal To Pay Fine; Work On Public Ways: If a defendant who is
financially able refuses or neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment
may be enforced by imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate
of five dollars ($5.00) per day. The defendant may be compelled to satisfy the
amount owed by working on the streets, alleys, avenues, areas, and public
grounds of the city at a rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for useful labor,
or such amount set by the city from time to time by ordinance, until the fine
or costs are satisfied, if he is able but unwilling to pay such fine.
   B.   Inability To Pay Fine: If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court in
Craig County, where it shall be entered upon the judgment docket and have the
full force and effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies
shall be available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any
other judgment creditor. (1986 Code § 12-27)
1-9-22: WITNESSES:
   A.   Payment Allowed: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than
police officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to ten dollars ($10.00)
per each day of attendance, plus thirty six cents ($0.36) for each mile
actually and necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the place of
attendance if their residence is outside the limits of the city. However, no
witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period
of time or the same travel. (1986 Code § 12-28; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Deposit From Defendant; Indigents Excepted:
      1.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for
each witness to be summoned.
      2.   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of said witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city. (1986 Code § 12-28)
1-9-23: ACQUITTAL:
If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not being detained for any
other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (1986 Code § 12-29; amd. 2005
Code)
1-9-24: SUSPENDED SENTENCE:
After conviction and sentence, the judge trying the cause may suspend judgment,
costs, or both, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by, 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and
27-124. (1986 Code § 12-30)
1-9-25: WORK PERFORMED BY PRISONERS:
   A.   Credit Allowed: All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea
of guilty will be credited for serving two (2) days of imprisonment under his
sentence for each day of work on the public streets, avenues, alleys, parks,
buildings, or other public premises or property.
   B.   Direction And Supervision Of Work: The chief of police, subject to the
direction of the mayor, shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
head of the department in charge of the place where the work is to be
performed, himself or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the work.
If a guard is necessary, the chief of police shall make provision therefor.
(1986 Code § 12-39)
1-9-26: COMMUNITY SERVICE:
Any person pleading guilty, pleading no contest, being found guilty, or
agreeing to be assessed an administrative fee for violation of a municipal
ordinance or state statute, may be ordered at the discretion of the court to
perform community service. Community service may be in addition to, or in place
of, incarceration, fines, costs, administrative fees imposed by the court.
Community service shall be performed in the service of departments of the city
of Vinita or any public works controlled by the city of Vinita. (Ord. 3240, 7-
6-2004)
CHAPTER 10
COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
1-10-1: Comprehensive Plan Required
1-10-2: Comprehensive Plan Prepared
1-10-3: Public Hearing; Plan Adopted
1-10-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REQUIRED:
The city council is required to prepare and adopt a comprehensive plan to guide
the physical development of the Vinita urban area. (1986 Code § 16-8)
1-10-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PREPARED:
The planning commission has caused to be prepared a proposed plan titled "A
Comprehensive Development Plan - Vinita, Oklahoma", adoption of which the city
council deems to be in the public interest and in keeping with the purposes set
forth in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-103. (1986 Code § 16-9; amd. 2005
Code)
1-10-3: PUBLIC HEARING; PLAN ADOPTED:
   A.   Hearing: The planning commission did hold a public hearing on August
29, 1967, for the purpose of considering the adoption of the comprehensive
plan, in whole or in part. Public notice of such meeting was duly given as
required by law. (1986 Code § 16-10)
   B.   Plan Considered: The city council attended said public hearing and have
given consideration to the public hearing and the contents of "A Comprehensive
Plan - Vinita Oklahoma". (1986 Code § 16-11)
   C.   Plan Adopted: The city council determined that the comprehensive
development plan as prepared by the planning commission and presented at said
public hearing (a true and correct copy of which is attached to resolution
dated August 25, 1967, as exhibit A) is hereby adopted as a part of the
official comprehensive plan of the city as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 43-103. Said comprehensive plan consists of the following parts: (1986
Code § 16-12; amd. 2005 Code)
Goals and policies for the use of private property:
Residential development goals
   Commercial development goals
Industrial development goals
Goals and policies for the development of public property and facilities:
Education facilities
Parks, recreation, and open space
Public parking
Trafficways plan
Public utilities
Civic center plan
(1986 Code § 16-12)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 0
BOARDS; GENERALLY
SECTION:
2-0-1: Membership
2-0-1: MEMBERSHIP:
Membership on the library board or the board of directors of the Eastern Trail
Museum or the board of directors of Vinita senior citizens or the Vinita
chamber of commerce shall not serve to disqualify an otherwise qualified
individual from simultaneously serving upon one or all of such boards while
also serving on the Vinita city council. (Ord. 3599, 5-19-2015)
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created; Terms; Compensation
2-1-2: Chairman And Secretary
2-1-3: Rules And Regulations; Meetings
2-1-4: Duties And Powers
2-1-5: Actions Of Commission And Council
2-1-6: Plats And Subdivisions
2-1-7: Expenditures
2-1-8: Regional Planning Commission
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; TERMS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Membership; Terms: There is hereby created in the city a planning
commission to be composed of five (5) members. The members shall be nominated
by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. Each member shall serve for a
period of three (3) years.
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications: The members of said commission shall be
appointed from residents of the city, and effort is to be made to secure the
services of persons best qualified to plan for the future growth, development
and improvement of the city, and in the orderly development of city planning
for the city as a whole.
   C.   Compensation: The members of the city planning commission shall serve
without salary.
   D.   Vacancy: In the event of a vacancy on said commission for any reason, a
successor shall be appointed as herein provided for the unexpired term only of
such vacancy. (1986 Code § 16-1)
2-1-2: CHAIRMAN AND SECRETARY:
The commission shall meet and elect one of their number as chairman and one of
their number as secretary. Such officers when so elected shall serve in their
respective capacity for a term of one year, or until their successors are
elected and qualified. (1986 Code § 16-2)
2-1-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS; MEETINGS:
The city planning commission shall prescribe rules and regulations governing
and controlling the transaction of business before it, and shall determine a
date each quarter for regular meetings. Special meetings may be called at any
time by the chairman of the commission or by any three (3) members. (Ord. 3586,
10-21-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-1-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The duties and powers of the planning commission shall be as follows:
   A.   The planning commission shall investigate and recommend to the mayor
and city council suitable zoning ordinances for the city.
   B.   The planning commission shall prepare from time to time plans for the
betterment of the municipality as a place of residence or for business. It may
consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development and
betterment of the municipality, and make recommendations as it may deem
advisable concerning the adoption thereof, to any department of the municipal
government, and for any purpose make or cause to be made surveys, maps or
plans.
   C.   The planning commission shall have the power and authority to employ
engineers, attorneys, clerks and a secretary, or any other help deemed
necessary, subject to the approval of the city council.
   D.   Before final action may be taken by any municipality or department
thereof on the location, construction, or design of any public building,
statue, memorial, park, parkway, boulevard, street, alley, playground, public
ground, or bridge, or the change in the location or grade of any street or
alley, the question shall be submitted to the planning commission for
investigation and report.
   E.   The planning commission may exercise jurisdiction over subdivision of
land and adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land within its
jurisdiction. Any such regulations, before they become effective, shall be
approved by the city council and shall be published as provided by law for the
publication of ordinances.
   F.   All findings and recommendations of the city planning commission
affecting private property shall be submitted in writing to the city council
for its examination, approval or rejection.
   G.   Any suit to challenge any action, decision, ruling or order of the
planning commission shall be filed with the district court within thirty (30)
business days from the action, decision, ruling or order.
(1986 Code § 16-4; amd. Ord. 3842, 6- 18-2024)
2-1-5: ACTIONS OF COMMISSION AND COUNCIL:
All projects or matters that fail within the purview of the duties of the city
planning commission, as herein specified, that may come before the city council
shall be referred to the city planning commission for investigation and report
before any final action shall be taken thereon; provided however, that if the
city planning commission shall fail to make an investigation and report on any
matter or subject referred to it for a period of sixty (60) days, such failure
shall be considered a refusal to approve the proposed plan or project and the
city council may thereupon act to approve the proposed plan or project and the
city council may thereupon act upon such proposal, plan or project as though
such matter had not been referred to the said planning commission. (1986 Code §
16-5)
2-1-6: PLATS AND SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Hearing: No platting of unplatted property in the city, no replatting
of any existing subdivision in the city and no platting or subdivisions of
property adjoining the city shall be permitted until such plat or resubdivision
shall be presented to the city planning commission and a hearing had thereon.
   B.   Publishing And Posting Notice: Upon such matter being presented to the
city planning commission, it shall cause a notice to be published at least once
in a newspaper published in the city not less than fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing, which notice shall briefly set out the proposed replatting or
subdivision, and the time and place of hearing upon such proposal. In addition,
there shall be posted for not less than fifteen (15) days on the property
involved, a sign of type and size approved by the city planning commission
stating briefly the proposed platting, replatting or subdivision, and the time
and place of hearing on such proposal.
   C.   Recommendations To Council: After a hearing conducted in the manner
above set forth, the city planning commission shall make its findings and
recommendations to the city council concerning the adoption, modification or
rejection of said platting, replatting or subdivision.
   D.   Costs Borne By Applicant: All costs of publication and other expenses
necessarily incurred in connection with such hearings shall be at the expense
of the person or parties applying for such approval. (1986 Code § 16-6)
2-1-7: EXPENDITURES:
The city planning commission shall make application to the city council for the
funds which are necessary for such planning commission to expend in order to
carry out its duties as herein specified. At the beginning of each fiscal year,
the planning commission shall make application to the city council for an
appropriation to be set up for its use in carrying out its duties, and the city
shall include such appropriation in its estimate to be approved by the excise
board of Craig County. (1986 Code § 16-7)
2-1-8: REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Composition And Compensation: There is hereby appointed a regional
planning commission, which members shall consist of the members of the city
planning commission, the mayor, city engineer, chairman of the board of county
commissioners, and the county engineer. Said members shall serve without pay.
(1986 Code § 16-21)
   B.   Jurisdiction: The regional planning commission shall have jurisdiction
over a regional district which shall include any land outside the incorporated
limits of the city whose any one boundary, at any point, shall be within a
distance of three (3) miles from the incorporated limits of the city. (1986
Code § 16-22)
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities: The regional planning commission shall
have such duties, powers, rights and responsibilities as set out at 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 46-101 et seq., as may be amended from time to time. (1986
Code § 16-23)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 3535, 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Department Established; Composition
2-3-3: Director Of Emergency Management
2-3-4: Plans; Information; Records
2-3-5: Emergencies
2-3-6: Law Enforcement; Arrests
2-3-7: Compensation
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management organization
for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of the
emergency management organization shall be the protection of the lives and
health of the citizens of the city and of property and property rights, both
private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident
thereto. (1986 Code § 1-60; amd. 2005 Code)
2-3-2: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city a department of emergency management, which shall consist of: (1986 Code §
1-61; amd. 2005 Code)
   A.   Director, Deputy Director: A director of emergency management who shall
be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and
serve at his pleasure. A deputy director of emergency management who shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and
serve at his pleasure. (Ord. 3434, 6-2-2009)
   B.   Committee: An emergency management advisory committee.
      1.   This committee shall consist of the mayor as chairman and five (5)
members appointed by the mayor and serving at his pleasure.
      2.   The committee shall select from its members a vice chairman and
secretary.
      3.   It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the mayor, and its
function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the
mayor or the director of emergency management. (1986 Code § 1-61; amd. 2005
Code)
2-3-3: DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of
the department of emergency management and shall be responsible for carrying
out the emergency management program of the city.
      2.   It is the duty of the director of emergency management, as soon as
practicable after his appointment, to perfect an organization to carry out the
purposes set forth in this chapter, and he shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
chairman or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an
organization.
      3.   He shall have such further duty and responsibility to cooperate with
all emergency management agencies of other governmental units including the
state of Oklahoma and the federal government.
      4.   The deputy director shall assist the director in carrying out the
emergency management program of the city and shall have such powers and duties
as specified by the director. In the absence of the director, the deputy
director shall have the full powers and duties of the director.
   B.   Compensation; Expenses: The director and deputy director shall serve
without compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties. (Ord. 3434, 6-2-2009)
2-3-4: PLANS; INFORMATION; RECORDS:
The director of emergency management is further authorized to formulate written
plans and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern the
functions of the emergency management organization. (1986 Code § 1-63; amd.
2005 Code)
2-3-5: EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Authority Of Director: In the event of an enemy caused emergency or
emergency resulting from natural causes, the director of emergency management,
after due authorization from the mayor, shall have the power and authority to
enforce all rules and regulations relating to and, if necessary, take control
of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population.
   B.   Cooperate With Other Governmental Agencies: He shall cooperate in every
way with the activities of other governmental agencies or organizations; and,
if required by the mayor, shall have control over any and all funds allocated
from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
(1986 Code § 1-64; amd. 2005 Code)
2-3-6: LAW ENFORCEMENT; ARRESTS:
The director of emergency management and other members of the emergency
management organization shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws
of the state of Oklahoma and ordinances of the city during the period of
emergency and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances. (1986 Code § 1-65; amd. 2005 Code)
2-3-7: COMPENSATION:
All members of the emergency management organization created hereunder shall
serve without compensation. (Ord. 3434, 6-2-2009)
CHAPTER 4
FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Created
2-4-2: Operation Of Fund
2-4-3: Deductions From Compensation
2-4-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the local firefighters pension and retirement board of
the firefighters pension and retirement system of the city, with membership,
organization, powers, duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 49-103 et seq., and as may be provided by any later laws
relating to said board. (1986 Code § 1-73)
2-4-2: OPERATION OF FUND:
The firefighters pension and retirement system shall be operated in accordance
with state law relating to the fund, and pensions and other benefits shall be
paid as provided by state law. (1986 Code § 1-74)
2-4-3: DEDUCTIONS FROM COMPENSATION:
   A.   Monthly Deductions From Compensation:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to deduct monthly from
the salary or wages of each member of the fire department of the city an amount
equal to eight percent (8%), which deduction shall be considered the minimum
deduction. The members of a fire department, by a majority vote of its paid
members, may vote to increase the amount of the deduction.
      2.   The treasurer shall deposit monthly in the Oklahoma firefighters
pension and retirement system the amounts deducted from the salary or wages of
each member of the fire department.
      3.   All such deductions so made shall be set forth on each payroll in a
legible manner so that each member of the fire department contributing to the
fund may be able to ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
   B.   Monthly Deposit With State: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer
to deposit monthly with the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board
an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the total actual pay based salaries of
the members of the fire department. (1986 Code § 1-75)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Created
2-5-2: Operation Of Fund
2-5-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the local pension and retirement board of the Oklahoma
police pension and retirement system of the city, with membership,
organization, powers, duties, and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 50-101 et seq. (1986 Code § 1-89)
2-5-2: OPERATION OF FUND:
The Oklahoma police pension and retirement system shall be operated in
accordance with the state law relating to the fund, and pensions and other
benefits shall be paid as provided by state law. (1986 Code § 1-90)
CHAPTER 6
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Definitions
2-6-2: Board Created; Membership
2-6-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-6-4: Compensation
2-6-5: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-6: Board Operation
2-6-7: Review By Council
2-6-8: Public Tree Care
2-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-2: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created and established a city tree board for the city which
shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of this area, who
shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council. (Ord.
2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   Terms: The terms of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the mayor
shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the members
appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of two (2)
members of the first board shall be for two (2) years.
   B.   Vacancies: In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of
any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the
term. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Tree Plan Preparation:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually a written plan for the care,
preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys.
      2.   Such plan will be presented annually to the city and upon their
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official council comprehensive
city tree plan for the city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
   B.   Planting, Pruning, Removal; Permit:
      1.   The city tree board, or its agent, shall be responsible for the
planting, pruning, and removal of all trees located within the street rights of
way, easements, alleys and parks of the city.
      2.   The owner of land abutting on any street may, when acting within the
provisions of this chapter, prune, spray, plant or remove trees in that part of
the street abutting his land not used for public travel.
      3.   A street tree permit shall be required only when the owner of
property intends to deviate from the rules and regulations contained in this
chapter.
   C.   Investigations; Recommendations To Council: The board, when requested
by the city council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and
recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its
work. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-6: BOARD OPERATION:
   A.   Officers; Rules: The board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction
of business. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-7: REVIEW BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Review: The city council shall have the right to review the conduct,
acts and decisions of the city tree board.
   B.   Appeal Board Ruling To Council: Any person may appeal from any ruling
or order of the city tree board to the city council who may hear the matter and
make the final decision. (Ord. 2831, 7-2-1991)
2-6-8: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
   A.   Planting Of Trees: The city shall have the right to plant, trim, spray,
preserve, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure safety when servicing city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
   B.   Removal Of Trees: The city tree board may remove or cause or order to
be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which
by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or other pest. (Ord. 2831, 7-
2-1991)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Tax; Term
3-1-2: Separate Licenses Required
3-1-3: Display Of License
3-1-4: Transfer Of License
3-1-5: Duplicate License; Fee
3-1-6: License Tax Levied On Certain Occupations
3-1-7: Itinerant Occupations
3-1-8: Revocation Of License
3-1-9: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; TAX; TERM:
   A.   Payment Of Tax; Securing Of License: It is unlawful for any person,
firm, association or corporation to engage in, exercise or pursue any business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is levied by
this title or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without paying the
license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
   B.   Issuance Of License: Upon making proper application to the city clerk,
the payment of the license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may
be prescribed by law and/or ordinance, the city clerk shall issue a license
therefor. (1986 Code § 5-1)
   C.   License Expiration; Proration Of Tax: Annual licenses shall expire on
June 30 of the year for which they are issued. When an annual license is issued
after July 1 for the remainder of the year to a person, firm, association or
corporation just beginning to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the tax collected shall be a
fractional part of the annual tax equal to the fraction of the year remaining;
provided, that the minimum tax for a part of a year shall be one-twelfth (1/12)
of the required annual tax. (1986 Code § 5-1; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-2: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person, firm, association or corporation who engages in, exercises, or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the city, or who engages
in, exercises or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege, shall pay the fee, and secure a separate license, for
each such place and/or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege. (1986 Code § 5-2)
3-1-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Display: Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege shall conspicuously
display the license at all times in some part of his place of business or
activity where a person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
display it to any person who requests to see it.
   B.   Coin Operated Devices: Provided that, in lieu of the above manner of
displaying such licenses, when licenses are required for coin operated music or
amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and equipment, the
license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment in such
position and manner that it will be clearly visible; and shall be so placed or
attached if the license so states on its face.
   C.   Refusal To Display: It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the
license as required in this section. (1986 Code § 5-3)
3-1-4: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to assign or transfer any
licenses issued by the city. (1986 Code § 5-5)
3-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Issuance: Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege has been lost or destroyed
without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the city clerk, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time.
   B.   Affidavit: Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and
file with the city clerk an affidavit that the license has not been
transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or
connivance by the holder; and that, if believed lost, he has made diligent
search for it and has not been able to find it. (1986 Code § 5-6)
   C.   Fee: The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the city
clerk, shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (1986 Code § 5-6; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-6: LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS:
There is hereby levied an occupation tax in the amount per annum or per day, at
the option of the taxpayer, against persons, firms, associations and
corporations engaged in itinerant occupations, trades or business within the
city, in the amount hereinafter specified:
          Tax
Business  Per Annum Per Day
                                                              Tax
Business                                                      Per Annum Per Day
                                                                       
Agents or solicitors selling or taking orders for sale of
books, magazines, periodicals or publications of any         $100.00  $25.00
description, each
Agents or solicitors selling insurance, or taking orders     500.00   50.00
for insurance policies, each
Carnival, circus, or menagerie where admission is charged,   –      50.00
each
Collection agents, each                                      50.00    25.00
Concessions, games, amusements not a part of an organized    50.00    25.00
carnival where a fee is charged, each
Fortune tellers, each                                        50.00    10.00
Palm readers, each                                           100.00   10.00
Persons selling or undertaking to sell unsolicited services  –      25.00
not specifically listed herein
Photographers, each                                          100.00   25.00
Real estate agents, each                                     100.00   25.00
Salesmen, solicitors, vendors or peddlers, selling or
taking orders for sale of goods and merchandise at retail    100.00   25.00
not heretofore listed, each
Shows, including tent shows, other than circuses and         100.00   25.00
menageries, where admission is charged, each
 
(1986 Code § 5-7; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-7: ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS:
"Itinerant occupations, trades and businesses" shall mean occupations, trades
or businesses having no permanent warehouse, building, structure or residence
within the city at which a permanent business is carried on throughout the year
or usual production season in good faith, and not for the purpose of evading
section
3-1-6 of this chapter, and shall include occupations, trades or businesses
housed in temporary stands or quarters or in permanent quarters occupied
pursuant to any temporary arrangements; provided, however, that no occupation,
trade or business engaged in or operated in good faith by any actual resident
of Craig County, who has been such a resident for a period of more than ten
(10) days, or sponsored by any permanent, civic or religious club, association
or organization of fifteen (15) or more members, the majority of whom are
residents of the city, shall be considered an itinerant occupation, trade or
business. (1986 Code § 5-8)
3-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the city to any person, firm, association or corporation
to engage in, exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege may be revoked by the city council, after adequate opportunity for a
hearing, for any of the following causes: a) that the licensee is engaging in,
exercising or pursuing the business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege
in such a manner that he has created or is creating a public nuisance as
defined by 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1 and 2; b) serious or repeated
violation of the law or ordinances; c) any other cause prescribed by law or
ordinance. (1986 Code § 5-4)
3-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or shall fail to do any act when such provision declares
such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1986 Code § 5-35; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Title
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: Tax Imposed; Rates; Effective Dates
3-2A-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-2A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-2A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-2A-7: Tax Due Date
3-2A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-2A-9: Collection By Vendors
3-2A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-2A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-2A-12: Fraudulent Returns
3-2A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
3-2A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-2A-15: Records Confidential
3-2A-16: Amendments
3-2A-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF VINITA SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2005 Code)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state sales tax
code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
STATE SALES TAX CODE: Reference to the "state sales tax code" shall mean such
code as set out in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., as amended.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency of
the state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law or
contract to administer the collection of the tax levied by this article. (2005
Code)
3-2A-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES:
The following city sales tax, in the total amount of three percent (3%), shall
be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of
the people. Said tax has been approved by a majority of the registered voters
of the city voting on same in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by
Oklahoma Statutes:
Two percent (2%), for the purpose of providing revenues for the support of the
functions of the city government, pursuant to ordinance 2786. (2005 Code)
One percent (1%), for the purpose of providing revenues to be used for the
general fund and capital expenditures for the use and benefit of the city of
Vinita, Oklahoma (the "city") and the Vinita utilities authority, and/or for
payment of debt service in connection with obligations heretofore issued or to
be issued to finance said capital expenditures, said capital expenditures to
include, but not by way of limitation, costs associated with the planning,
acquisition and construction of improvements to streets, water, sewer and solid
waste systems serving the city. One-fourth (1/4) of such one percent (1%) sales
tax shall be for the use of the general fund of the city of Vinita and three-
fourths (3/4) of such one percent (1%) sales tax shall be for the use and
benefit of capital improvements for the city of Vinita, Oklahoma. The effective
date of this tax shall be July 1, 2002. (Ord. 3179, 4-1-2002)
3-2A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2005 Code)
3-2A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state sales tax code.
(2005 Code)
3-2A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such tax
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2005 Code)
3-2A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be due and payable at
the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales
tax under the state sales tax law. (2005 Code)
3-2A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the state tax commission at the
time and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
state sales tax law.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the
state tax commission shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the city and the state tax commission, in the collection of both the city
sales tax and the state sales tax. (2005 Code)
3-2A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied under the provision of this article shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every
vendor in the city to collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the
tax levied by this article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed under this article, or the average
equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied by this article, or wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or
remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by
whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any
form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he
is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
3-2A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected under the provisions of
this article shall be made to the state tax commission at the time and in the
manner, form and amount as prescribed for returns and remittances required by
the state sales tax code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of
state sales tax. (2005 Code)
3-2A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, and
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article and
interest or penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied under this article; provided, that the failure or refusal
of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax as levied under this article
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and amendments thereto; and to accomplish the
purposes of this section the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2005 Code)
3-2A-12: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties which may be imposed for the violation of
this article, the wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to punishment as provided in
section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
3-2A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Taxes, penalty and interest due under the provision of this article shall at
all times constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the
claims of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(2005 Code)
3-2A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax levied under the provisions
of this article may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in
the same manner and procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as
provided for administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 227, and amendments thereto, and to accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this article. (2005 Code)
3-2A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and
amendments thereto, of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof,
is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2005
Code)
3-2A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the ordinances from which this
article was derived at the elections provided for in section
3-2A-3 of this article, hereby authorize the city council, by ordinances duly
enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administrating and enforcing this article as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors
of the city as provided by law. (2005 Code)
3-2A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Title
3-2B-2: Definitions
3-2B-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-2B-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-2B-5: Purpose Of Revenues
3-2B-6: Tax Imposed
3-2B-7: Exemptions
3-2B-8: Tax Due Date; Payment
3-2B-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-2B-10: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
3-2B-11: Deductions For Vendors Of Other States
3-2B-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-2B-13: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-2B-14: Fraudulent Returns
3-2B-15: Records Confidential
3-2B-16: Provisions Cumulative
3-2B-17: Revocation Of Permit
3-2B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF VINITA USE TAX
ORDINANCE. (1986 Code § 7-29)
3-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
CITY: The city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: As used herein, means the department of the city government or
the official agency of the state, duly designated according to law or contract
authorized by law, to administer the collection of the use tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (1986 Code §§ 7-30, 7-31)
3-2B-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(1986 Code § 7-32)
3-2B-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose. (1986 Code § 7-33)
3-2B-5: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the city government, and any and all revenues
derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body for any purpose for
which funds may be lawfully expended and authorized. (1986 Code § 7-34)
3-2B-6: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Levy Of Tax: There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the city, tangible personal
property purchased or brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use
or otherwise consuming within the city of such property at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the purchase price of such property. (1986 Code § 7-35; amd.
2005 Code; Res. 2006-3335, 11-7-2006)
   B.   Payment Of Tax; Exception: Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city, tangible personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the city, but which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily
retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service.
   C.   Deductions: Any person liable for payment of the use tax authorized
herein may deduct from such use tax any local or municipal sales tax previously
paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not
exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by the city had
been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (1986 Code § 7-35; amd. 2005
Code)
3-2B-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting in the city for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the city.
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used. (1986 Code § 7-36)
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the city use tax ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible, personal property in the city, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If
any article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a tax
by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use,
in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and
the city use tax ordinance, the provisions of this article shall also apply to
it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both
the Oklahoma use tax code and the city use tax ordinance, and the rate by which
the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no credit
shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state
or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the
city. (1986 Code § 7-36; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the city, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the city. Provided, that this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation under the sales tax code of the city. The term "manufacturing plants"
shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or
processing operations, and generally recognized as such.
   E.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city.
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of the
city where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment.
   G.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads.
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into the
city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (1986 Code §
7-36)
3-2B-8: TAX DUE DATE; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 7-37)
3-2B-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1986 Code § 7-38)
3-2B-10: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   A.   Places Of Business Within And Without State: Every retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without the state of Oklahoma,
and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of business
outside this state for use in the city, shall, at the time of making such
sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the purchaser and give
to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the
Oklahoma tax commission, if said tax commission shall, by regulation, require
such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with said tax commission the
name and address of all his agents operating in the city and location of any
and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in
the city. (1986 Code § 7-39)
   B.   Places Of Business Outside State: The Oklahoma tax commission may, in
its discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax herein
levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within
this state but who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in the
city, and by the out of state place of business of any retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without Oklahoma and making
sales of tangible, personal property at such out of state place of business for
use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a
permit to collect such taxes, by said tax commission, in such manner and
subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the use
tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use within
the city. Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, said tax
commission considers that such use tax can more effectively be collected from
the person using such property in the city. Provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipal sales tax at
the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under the
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (1986 Code § 7-40)
3-2B-11: DEDUCTIONS FOR VENDORS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes. (1986 Code §
7-42)
3-2B-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Statutory Provisions Adopted: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma
Statutes, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and interest and
penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby
levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying
the use tax levied by this article; provided, that the failure or refusal of
any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of use
tax in the time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed
under this article. (1986 Code § 7-43; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest and penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the use tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To accomplish the
purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1986 Code § 7-44;
amd. 2005 Code)
3-2B-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1986 Code § 7-45)
3-2B-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due under this
article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall
constitute a separate offense. (1986 Code § 7-46; amd. 2005 Code)
3-2B-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205, of the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the municipal use tax as if herein set forth in full. (1986 Code § 7-47)
3-2B-16: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances. (1986 Code § 7-48)
3-2B-17: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
tax commission, said tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided
for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after the notice
and hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or
any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma tax commission. (1986 Code § 7-
41; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE C. HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Title
3-2C-2: Definitions
3-2C-3: Subsisting State Permits
3-2C-4: Effective Date And Termination
3-2C-5: Use Of Funds
3-2C-6: Tax Levied
3-2C-7: Exemptions
3-2C-8: Tax Designated On Bills, Receipts
3-2C-9: Operator Responsible For Collection
3-2C-10: Discount For Collection Of Tax
3-2C-11: Records Of Rentals
3-2C-12: Tax Returns
3-2C-13: Payment Of Tax
3-2C-14: Bond Required
3-2C-15: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-2C-16: Refunds, Procedure
3-2C-17: Notices, Issuance
3-2C-18: Remedies Exclusive
3-2C-19: City Treasurer, Authority
3-2C-20: Registration Certificates And Certificates Of Authority
3-2C-21: Delinquencies; Interest Charged
3-2C-22: Records Confidential
3-2C-23: Fraudulent Returns
3-2C-24: Payment Of Legal Fees
3-2C-25: Amendments
3-2C-26: Provisions Cumulative
3-2C-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and cited as the CITY OF VINITA HOTEL TAX ORDINANCE
OF 2001. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which three (3) or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of transient guests whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The
term shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or
courts, lodging houses, bed and breakfast inns, inns, rooming houses, trailer
houses, trailer motels, apartments and sleeping rooms not occupied by
"permanent residents", and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping
accommodations or space are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not
include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, assisted living centers, senior
care facilities, university dormitories or other educational or charitable
institutions.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to use or possess any room or
rooms in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings, or
to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the
room or rooms.
OCCUPANT: A person who for a consideration uses, possesses, or has the right to
use or possess any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease, concession,
permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited
to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is not capable of being occupied for lodging purpose and which is used
for educational, recreational, or amusement purposes and shall include: dance
halls; cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or
private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties, or weddings; lodge and meeting
halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling,
and table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors, markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article.
TREASURER: The treasurer of the city of Vinita. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-3: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits issued to do business by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 3157, 6-
5-2001)
3-2C-4: EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION:
This article shall become and be effective on or after November 1, 2001,
subject to the approval of the registered voters of the city, voting on the
same in the manner prescribed by law; provided, that, upon approval of the
voters as required above, this article shall remain in effect and not be
repealed unless repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the city
voting to repeal same in the same manner as required for its approval. (Ord.
3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-5: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Promoting Tourism: Funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be set aside and used exclusively for one or more of the
following purposes:
      1.   Encouraging, promoting and fostering conventions, conferences. and
tourism development in the city.
      2.   Solicitation of visitor attractions, events, tourism, conferences,
conventions and meetings in the city.
   B.   Administration And Collection Of Tax: One percent (1%) of the gross
receipts derived from taxes collected pursuant to this article shall be
retained by the office of the city treasurer for the purpose of administering
and collecting the tax. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-6: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%) of the gross rental
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma sales tax code upon
the service of furnishing rooms by hotels or motels within the city, except
that the tax shall not be assessed where the rent is less than five dollars
($5.00) per day. This excise tax shall be in addition to any existing sales
taxes imposed by the city of Vinita or the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-
2001)
3-2C-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions Enumerated: Officers, agents, representatives, or employees
of any government, corporation, organization, or association that is legally
exempted from Oklahoma sales taxation or city of Vinita sales taxation and
whose occupancy of the room is required in connection with the official
business or affairs of said government, corporation, organization, or
association, shall be exempt from the tax levied by this article.
   B.   Proof Of Exemption Required: Any person claiming to be except from the
tax pursuant to subsection A of this section shall display proof of exemption
and tax identification number certifying that the corporation, organization, or
association with which he is affiliated is exempt from the tax. (Ord. 3157, 6-
5-2001)
3-2C-8: TAX DESIGNATED ON BILLS, RECEIPTS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge, and show all taxes on all
bills, statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of
rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-9: OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION:
The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the city for the tax. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-10: DISCOUNT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
In order to compensate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports, and
remitting the tax when due, a discount equal to that allowed by the Oklahoma
tax commission for the collection of sales tax shall be allowed upon all taxes
paid prior to the time they become delinquent. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-11: RECORDS OF RENTALS:
It shall be the duty of every operator required to make a return and pay any
tax under this article to keep and preserve suitable records of the gross daily
rentals together with other pertinent records and documents which may be
necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder and such other records
as will substantiate and prove the accuracy of such returns. All records shall
remain in the city and be preserved for a period of three (3) years, unless the
city treasurer, in writing, has authorized their destruction or disposal at any
earlier date, and shall be open to examination at any time by the city
treasurer or by any of his duly authorized agents. The burden of proving that a
sale was not a taxable sale shall be upon the operator who makes the sale.
(Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-12: TAX RETURNS:
   A.   Filing Of Return; Payment Of Tax: The tax levied hereunder shall be due
and payable to the city treasurer on the first day of each month, except as
herein provided, by any person liable for the payment of any tax due under this
article. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the tax payable under
this article, it shall be the duty of all operators, on or before the fifteenth
day of each month, to deliver to the treasurer, upon forms prescribed and
furnished by him, returns, under oath, showing the gross receipts or gross
proceeds arising from rents received from occupancy of hotel or motel rooms
during the preceding calendar month. Such returns shall show such further
information as the treasurer may require to correctly compute and collect the
tax herein levied. In addition to the information required on returns, the
treasurer may request and the operator shall furnish any information deemed
necessary for a correct computation of the tax levied herein. Such operator
shall compute and remit to the treasurer the required tax due for the preceding
calendar month. The remittance or remittances of the tax shall accompany the
return herein required. If not paid on or before the fifteenth day of such
month, the tax shall be delinquent after such date; provided, that no interest
or penalty shall be charged on such return filed on or before the twentieth day
of such month.
   B.   Time Of Filing Return; Amended Returns: The treasurer may permit or
require returns to be made by shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as
he may specify. The form of return shall be prescribed by the treasurer and
shall contain such information as he may deem necessary for the proper
administration of this article. The treasurer may require amended returns to be
filed within twenty (20) days after notice, which amended return shall contain
the information specified in the notice. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-13: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the city treasurer the tax imposed by this article upon the rents
included in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator
acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 3157,
6-5-2001)
3-2C-14: BOND REQUIRED:
Where the city treasurer believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this article, he may
require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a surety company
authorized to transact business in this state in such amount as the treasurer
may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest due, or
which may become due, from such operator. In the event that the treasurer
determines that an operator is to file such bond, he shall give notice to such
operator specifying the amount of bond required, which shall in no event exceed
twice the amount of the sum in controversy. The operator shall file such bond
within five (5) days after receiving such notice unless within such five (5)
days the operator shall request in writing a hearing before the city council at
which the necessity and amount of the bond shall be determined by the city
council. Such determination shall be final and shall be complied with within
fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the
treasurer of cash in such amount as he may prescribe may be deposited with the
treasurer, who may at any time after five (5) days' notice to the depositor
apply them to any tax and/or penalties due, and for that purpose the securities
may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-15: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the
treasurer from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations, and
services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person against whom it is assessed, within ninety (90) days
after the giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the
city council for a hearing or unless the treasurer, upon his own initiative,
shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the city council shall give
written notice of its determination to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-16: REFUNDS, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure: The city treasurer shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously, illegally, or unconstitutionally collected if written application
to the treasurer for such refund shall be made within ninety (90) days from the
date of payment thereof. For like causes and in the same period, a refund may
be made upon the initiative and the order of the treasurer. Whenever a refund
is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may
be made by the person upon whom such tax was imposed and who has actually paid
the tax. Such application may also be made by the person who has collected and
paid such tax to the treasurer; provided, that the application is made within
ninety (90) days of the payment by the occupant to the operator, but no refund
of money shall be made to the operator until he has repaid to the occupant the
amount for which the application for refund is made. The treasurer, in lieu of
any refund required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payments due from
the applicant.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the treasurer
may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation as he
deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the treasurer
shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final
unless the applicant, within ninety (90) days after such notice, shall apply in
writing to the city council for a hearing. After such hearing, the city council
shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-
2001)
3-2C-17: NOTICES, ISSUANCE:
Any notice provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail addressed to the last known address of the operator.
(Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-18: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by the article. (Ord. 3157,
6-5-2001)
3-2C-19: CITY TREASURER, AUTHORITY:
In addition to all other powers granted to the treasurer, he is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt, and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
collection of taxes pursuant to this article;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee
or employees of the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise, and readjust the taxes imposed
by this article;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-20: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES AND CERTIFICATES OF AUTHORITY:
Every operator shall file with the city treasurer a registration certificate in
a form prescribed by said treasurer within ten (10) days after the effective
date of this article or, in the case of operators commencing business or
opening new hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such
commencement or opening. The treasurer shall, within five (5) days after the
filing of such certificate, issue without charge to each operator a certificate
of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and
duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate
shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificates of authority
shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be
seen and come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy.
Such certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be
surrendered immediately to the treasurer upon the cessation of business at the
hotel, or upon its sale or transfer. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-21: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST CHARGED:
If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the person responsible
and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at the rate of
one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the unpaid balance from the date
of delinquency until said unpaid balance is paid in full. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-22: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the tax is legislatively recognized and declared; and to
protect the same, the provision of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of the
state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of this
article as if herein set forth. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-23: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The wilful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and remittances
herein required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or a portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense against the city,
punishable, upon conviction, by a fine as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day of such failure or refusal shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001; amd. 2005 Code)
3-2C-24: PAYMENT OF LEGAL FEES:
In the event a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction is cause to be filed,
either on behalf of or against the city, and said cause is the direct result of
the conditions, stipulations, or requirements hereinbefore set forth, any
amount necessary to pay all legal fees incurred by the city, as well as fines
or penalties imposed against it, shall be set aside from the monies authorized
to be collected hereby in payment thereof, regardless of whether said cause was
for the purpose of enforcing or defending the provisions of this article. (Ord.
3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-25: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Vinita, by their approval of this article at the election herein
provided, hereby authorize the city council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified voters of the city as provided
by law. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
3-2C-26: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of city ordinances. (Ord. 3157, 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE A. TAXATION AND REGULATION 1
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Fee Schedules For Licenses And Permits And Occupational Taxes
3-3A-3: Payment Required; Penalty
3-3A-4: Annual Report
3-3A-5: Certificates Required
3-3A-6: Signs And Advertising
3-3A-7: Separate Premises; Passageways
3-3A-8: Sale In Containers; Consumption Restrictions
3-3A-9: Sale Only At Retail Store
3-3A-10: Location Restrictions
3-3A-11: Underage Persons, Restrictions
3-3A-12: Transportation Of Beverages
3-3A-13: Consumption And Intoxication In Public Places
3-3A-14: Hours And Days Of Sale Or Delivery
3-3A-15: Selling On Credit
3-3A-16: Giving Prizes
3-3A-17: Wholesale Deliveries Restricted
3-3A-18: Complaints; Investigation And Enforcement
3-3A-19: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1B-7 of this Code for offenses involving intoxicating liquor.
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this article shall, for the
purposes of this article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except when the context otherwise requires:
BREWER: Any person who manufactures for human consumption by the use of raw
materials or other ingredients any beer upon which an Occupational Tax is
imposed.
BREWPUB: A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on premises
located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food and
beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
CLASS I BEER LICENSE: A license for the retail sale of a beverage containing
more than one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) alcohol by volume and not more
than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, sold for
consumption on the premises, or sold not in the original containers for
consumption on or off the premises. Class I beer licenses are only available
and effective through September 30, 2018.
CLASS II BEER LICENSE: A license for the retail sale of a beverage containing
more than one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) alcohol by volume and not more
than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, sold in the
original containers for consumption off the premises. Class II beer licenses
are only available and effective through September 30, 2018.
MIXED BEVERAGE/CATERER: An Occupational Tax permit for sale of mixed beverages
as specifically provided by State law for the holder of a mixed beverage
license or a caterer license.
ON PREMISES BEER AND WINE: An Occupational Tax permit for the retail sale of
beer containing more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of alcohol by
weight and wine which means and includes any beverage containing more than one-
half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume and not more than twenty
four percent (24%) alcohol by volume. Effective October 1, 2018, this
Occupational Tax permit will apply to the sale of both low point and strong
beer, as those terms are defined in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103. (Ord.
3685, 3-19-2019)
3-3A-2: FEE SCHEDULES FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS AND OCCUPATIONAL TAXES:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The fee schedule, hereinafter set forth, shall be levied
and collected by the Clerk, or the Clerk's representatives, for the applicable
license, fees, permits, or Occupational Tax levies, prior to the issuance of
any such license permit or conducting of the business of serving alcoholic
beverages.
   B.   Occupational Taxes Relating To Alcoholic Beverages: Occupational Taxes
relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages are set forth as follows:
1.  Brewer, per year                                                $1,250.00
2.  Brewpub, per year                                               1,000.00
   a. Brewpub, if licensee also holds a mixed beverage or wine and 50.00
       beer permit, per year
3.  Distiller, per year                                             3,125.00
4.  Retail spirits store                                            900.00
5.  Mixed beverages, first year                                     1,000.00
   a. Renewals, per year                                           900.00
6.  On premises beer or wine, first year                            500.00
   a. Renewals, per year                                           450.00
7.  Mixed beverages/caterer combination                             1,250.00
   a. Renewals, per year                                           1,250.00
8.  Rectifier, per year                                             2,500.00
    Class I beer license, as defined in section
9.  3-3A-1 of this article (available and effective only through    20.00
    September 30, 2018)
    Class II beer license, as defined in section
10. 3-3A-1 of this article (available and effective only through    10.00
    September 30, 2018)
11. Winemaker, per year                                             500.00
12. Winemaker, Oklahoma, per year                                   50.00
13. Wholesaler, and effective October 1, 2018, "wine and spirits    2,000.00
    wholesaler", per year
14. Wholesaler, Class B, and effective October 1, 2018, "beer       500.00
    distributor", per year
15. Retail beer (effective beginning October 1, 2018)               500.00
16. Retail wine (effective beginning October 1, 2018)               1,000.00
 
   C.   Mixed Beverage Or Bottle Club Licenses: The Occupation Tax for those
service organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the Internal
Revenue Code for mixed beverage or bottle club licenses shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per year.
   D.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler: If a brewer or a Class B wholesaler also
holds a license from the State to manufacture wholesale any low point beer,
then the Occupation Tax for such brewer or Class B wholesaler shall be reduced
by seventy five percent (75%).
   E.   Reductions; Credits:
      1.   The Occupation Tax for a brewer and a Class B wholesaler shall be
reduced by seventy five percent (75%) if the brewer or Class B wholesaler is
also the holder of a license from the State to manufacture or wholesale any
low-point beer as provided in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 518.
      2.   Holders of a private club license purchased under this section on or
after July 1, 1984, shall receive pro rata credit on a mixed beverage or bottle
club Occupational Tax as authorized by House Bill 1118 of the 1985 Legislature
if such new license is issued on or before June 30, 1986. Credit shall be
allowed by using the following formula: number of days remaining in license
after June 30, 1985, divided by 365 times the amount paid for a private club
license.
   F.   Interim Occupational Tax: Except for the sale of wine or beer to the
public, an Interim Occupational Tax shall allow all qualified retail wine and
retail beer, beer distributors and wine and spirits wholesaler State licensees
to perform all activities permissible under a full license including but not
limited to purchasing, stocking and storing the wine and/or full-strength beer
prior to October 1, 2018. In order to qualify for an Interim Occupational Tax,
the State licensee must satisfy all the requirements set forth in article
XXVIIIA of the Oklahoma Constitution and State law. After October 1, 2018, the
Interim Occupational Tax shall convert to a full Occupational Tax and shall be
renewable annually from the date originally issued.
   G.   Payment Required; Penalty: No person shall operate or maintain a
brewery or brewpub without having previously paid the Occupational Tax as
provided in this chapter.
   H.   Occupational Tax Levied: No person shall operate, manage or work in any
retail establishment that sells, for off premises consumption only, any type of
alcoholic beverage, as that term is found in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506
through September 30, 2018, and as found in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103
thereafter without having previously obtained an Occupational Tax permit for
that store as provided in this article. (Ord. 3685, 3-19-2019)
3-3A-3: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   A.   State License Required: Any State licensee originally entering upon any
occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of the City
Clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. Such
licensee shall provide a copy of his current State license before payment of an
Occupation Tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1. (Ord. 3305, 3-7-2006)
   B.   Proration Of Tax: The Occupation Tax shall be prorated on a monthly
basis for the year in which occupation begins operations.
   C.   Issuance Of Receipt; Posting Required: Upon payment of the said
Occupation Tax, the City Clerk shall issue a receipt to said State licensee,
which said licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein
he carries on his occupation.
   D.   Failure To Pay Tax; Penalty: Any person who engages in any of the
occupations taxed by this chapter without paying said Occupation Tax imposed
therefor in advance of such operation, is guilty of an offense against the
City. (1986 Code § 2-3; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3A-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The City Clerk shall make an annual report to the Oklahoma Beverage Laws
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission, covering the fiscal year, showing the number and
class of licensees subject to the Occupation Tax and the amount of money
collected from said tax. (1986 Code § 2-4)
3-3A-5: CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Application For Certificate; Investigations:
      1.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the Zoning,
Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the City required by 37 Oklahoma Statutes
shall apply to the Office of the City Clerk by:
         a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         b.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of
fifty dollars ($50.00) at the time of filing.
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for license operations comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance and any Health, Fire, Building and other Safety Codes
applicable to it.
      3.   The City Clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificates:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of the applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety, and Health Codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      3.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor or
by the City Clerk and shall be issued within ten (10) days after all final
inspections are completed.
   C.   Conditional Certificates: The City Clerk is authorized to grant
conditional certificates for premises proposed for licensed operations for
which construction, modification, or alteration is not completed. Conditional
certificates shall indicate that the proposed premises will comply with the
Municipal or County Zoning, Fire, Safety, and Health Codes. The granting of
conditional certificates shall not relieve the applicant of the duty of
obtaining the certificates required by subsection A of this section, or 37
Oklahoma Statutes section 523 subsection B, after completion of the
construction, modification, or alteration.
   D.   Mixed Beverage Or Beer And Wine Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   A mixed beverage or beer and wine certificate of compliance, on
forms furnished by the City, shall be completed by every applicant for an
original license pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. This
certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following City departments:
         a.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply
with all Municipal zoning ordinances, verified by the City inspector and
Compliance Officer, or his designee.
         b.   The applicant's proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this Code, verified by the City inspector and
Compliance Officer, or his designee.
         c.   The applicant's proposed site, structure, and location must
comply with all Fire Code requirements required by this Code, verified by the
Fire Chief for the City of Vinita Fire Department or his designee.
         d.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply
with all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by this
Code, verified by the Craig County Health Department inspector or their
designee.
      2.   A retail spirits, retail beer and retail wine certificate of
compliance, on forms furnished by the City, shall be completed by every
applicant for an original license pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act. This certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following
City departments:
         a.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply
with all Municipal zoning ordinances, verified by the City inspector and
Compliance Officer, or his designee.
         b.   The applicant's proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this Code, verified by the City inspector and
Compliance Officer, or his designee.
         c.   The applicant's proposed site, structure, and location must
comply with all Fire Code requirements required by this Code, verified by the
Fire Chief for the City of Vinita Fire Department or his designee.
         d.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply
with all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by this
Code, verified by the Craig County Health Department inspector or their
designee. (Ord. 3685, 3-19-2019)
3-3A-6: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING:
   A.   Signs: No person, firm or corporation owning, operating or maintaining
a retail alcoholic beverage store shall cause or permit it to be designated by
more than one sign, which shall contain only the words "Retail Alcoholic Liquor
Store", or any combination of such words or any of them, and which shall
contain no letter more than four inches (4") in height or more than three
inches (3") in width and in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall
not be more than one inch (1") apart. (1986 Code § 2-9)
   B.   Advertising: No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised in
any manner other than as authorized by subsection A of this section, the sale
of alcoholic beverages within the limits of the City. (1986 Code § 2-10)
3-3A-7: SEPARATE PREMISES; PASSAGEWAYS:
   A.   Premises: No person shall maintain, operate, or assist in any manner in
the maintenance or operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store or package
store in premises which are not separated from adjoining premises on which any
other goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by
nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the
public is not admitted. (1986 Code § 2-11)
   B.   Passageways: No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any
passageway described in subsection A of this section, for the purpose of
selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in
connection with a sale of such beverage. (1986 Code § 2-12)
3-3A-8: SALE IN CONTAINERS; CONSUMPTION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Conditions For Selling: No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic
beverages at a retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
      1.   In retail containers;
      2.   At ordinary room temperatures;
      3.   In the original package;
      4.   For consumption off the premises.
   B.   Allowing Consumption On Premises: No person owing, employed in, or in
any manner assisting in the maintenance and operation of such a store shall
suffer or permit any alcoholic beverage to be consumed, or any retail container
of such beverage to be opened, on the premises of such a store. (1986 Code § 2-
13)
   C.   Consumption On Premises Prohibited: No person shall drink or consume in
any manner alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage
store, nor shall any person open or break the seal of any original package or
retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the premises of any such
retail alcoholic beverage store. (1986 Code § 2-14)
   D.   Breaking Seal On Container: No retail alcoholic beverage store shall
suffer or permit any retail container to be opened, or any alcoholic beverage
to be consumed, on his premises. (1986 Code § 2-15)
3-3A-9: SALE ONLY AT RETAIL STORE:
No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver, in consequence or
in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any place in the City
except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict conformity with this
article and the laws of the State of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 2-16)
3-3A-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: No retail alcoholic beverage store,
and no wholesale alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery, distillery,
winery or any other place, however described, for the manufacture or production
or bottling of any alcoholic beverages of any kind shall be located, maintained
or operated by any person, at any place within the boundaries of the City,
except at a location at which such an establishment is permitted by the zoning
ordinances of the City. (1986 Code § 2-17)
   B.   Operation At Forbidden Location: No person shall own, operate or
maintain or be interested in any retail alcoholic beverage store which is
located at a place within the City which is forbidden as a location for such
store by the laws of the State of Oklahoma, or by ordinance. (1986 Code § 2-18)
3-3A-11: UNDERAGE PERSONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person under twenty one (21) years of age
shall misrepresent his age in writing or present false documentation of age or
otherwise for the purpose of inducing any person to sell or serve him alcoholic
beverages.
   B.   Possession By Minor: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years in any public place, including the streets, highways,
or alleys or in any place of amusement or business open to the public or some
class thereof within the City, to have in his possession or within any vehicle
operated by him or under his control, any intoxicating liquor.
   C.   Employment: No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years
of age in the selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one
(21) years of age in the selling of spirits. Provided:
      1.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, a caterer, public event, special
event, bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or
sales clerks who are at least eighteen (18) years of age; however persons under
twenty one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas,
and
      2.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special
event or bottle club licensee may employee or hire musical bands who have
musicians who are under eighteen (18) years of age if each such musician is
either accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be
made available for inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE
Commission or law enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the
parent or legal guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in
designated bar or lounge areas.
   D.   Unlawfully Entering Premises:
      1.   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store in the
City, and no person employed therein, shall permit any person under twenty one
(21) years of age to enter into, to remain within, or to loiter about, the
premises of such retail alcoholic beverage store.
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall enter into,
remain within, or loiter about, the premises of any retail alcoholic beverage
store within the City. (Ord. 3685, 3-19-2019)
3-3A-12: TRANSPORTATION OF BEVERAGES:
No person within the City shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, alley or other public way any alcoholic beverage, unless such
alcoholic beverage is:
   A.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container.
   B.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(1986 Code § 2-20)
3-3A-13: CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Drinking In Public: No person within the City shall drink or consume
any intoxicating liquor in any public place, except on the premises of the
licensee of the Alcoholic Beverage Law Enforcement Commission who is authorized
to sell or serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, nor shall any
person be intoxicated in a public place within the City, nor shall any owner,
operator or manager of any business or public place to which the public is
generally invited allow an intoxicated person to remain in or upon said
premises. (1986 Code § 2-21; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Intoxicated Persons In Restaurants: No person operating a cafe,
restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within the City, and no employee
engaged in connection with the operation of such a cafe, restaurant, club or
place of recreation shall permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in said
place of business. (1986 Code § 2-31; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3A-14: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE OR DELIVERY:
   A.   Brewery Or Brewpub: No brewery or brewpub to which the brewery or
brewpub Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of
such establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any
beer, as that term is defined in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103(5), on the
premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M.
   B.   Mixed Beverage Or On Premises Beer And Wine: No establishment to which
the mixed beverage or on premises beer and wine Occupational Tax is applicable,
nor any agent, servant or employee of such establishment shall sell, dispense,
serve or allow to be consumed any mixed beverages, beer or wine on the premises
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   C.   Class I: Effective through September 30, 2018, no person who holds a
Class I beer license, nor any agent, servant or employee of said licensee,
shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any low-point beer on the
premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M., Monday through Saturday, and between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday.
   D.   Persons On Premises After Closing: Effective through September 30,
2018, and except as herein provided, no person who owns, manages or operates
any business serving mixed beverages, beer or wine or a Class I establishment
zones as a bar, club, or tavern licensed under the authority of this article
shall permit any person to remain on the premises past the applicable closing
time; provided that a maximum of eight (8) persons shall be permitted to remain
for two (2) hours past the applicable closing time, so long as they are
employed by the business serving mixed beverages, beer or wine or the Class I
establishment and are involved in cleaning, closing or otherwise securing the
premises.
   E.   No Sell Or Delivery Days: No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages
shall sell or deliver to any retail spirits store any alcoholic beverages on
Sundays, New Year's Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day.
   F.   Retail Spirits Stores: Now and through September 30, 2018, no person
shall open or operate a retail store except between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Effective October 1, 2018, retail
spirit stores will be permitted to remain open and operational from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. through twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. Further, no person
shall open or operate a retail spirits store at any time on the following days:
      1.   Sunday;
      2.   July 4, 2018;
      3.   September 3, 2018;
      4.   Thanksgiving Day; or
      5.   Christmas Day.
   G.   Retail Beer Or Retail Wine Stores: Effective October 1, 2018, a retail
wine or retail beer establishment may offer wine or beer for retail sale on
Monday through Sunday between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord. 3685, 3-19-2019)
3-3A-15: SELLING ON CREDIT:
No person, at any retail alcoholic beverage store in the City, shall sell any
alcoholic beverage on credit. (1986 Code § 2-25)
3-3A-16: GIVING PRIZES:
No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no person
employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium, gift or similar
inducement to a consumer in connection with a sale of alcoholic beverages.
(1986 Code § 2-26)
3-3A-17: WHOLESALE DELIVERIES RESTRICTED:
No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent or employee
of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic beverage store
in the City any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any week, on Sunday
of any week, on New Year's Day, on Memorial Day, on the Fourth of July, on
Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day, or while the
polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary, or special
election, whether national, State, County or City. (1986 Code § 2-30)
3-3A-18: COMPLAINTS; INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the mandatory duty of the Chief of Police, Police Officers, and the
City Attorney to diligently investigate, enforce, and prosecute any and all
complaints of violations of this article and the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, and a failure, neglect or refusal to do so shall constitute
dereliction of duty. (1986 Code § 2-32)
3-3A-19: PENALTY 1 :
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such provision
declared such failure to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-9-13 of this Code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1986 Code § 2-41; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-9-12A of this Code for fines imposed for "liquor" related violations.
ARTICLE B. LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: License Required; Issuance
3-3B-3: License Fee
3-3B-4: Enforcement By Police
3-3B-5: Unlawful Transportation
3-3B-6: Underage Persons, Restrictions
3-3B-7: Penalty
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar products.
RETAIL DEALER: Means and includes any and all persons, corporations or
associations who sell, disburse, or dispense, within the city any "low point
beer", as defined herein, at retail, to the public for consumption or use,
whether consumed on the premises or not. A dealer who is engaged in wholesaling
low point beer for resale shall not be exempt from the provisions of this
article if he sells, disburses or dispenses such beverages direct to the public
or for consumption or use. (1986 Code §§ 2-33, 2-34; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Requirement: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person,
corporation or association to sell, disburse, or dispense, within the city, any
low point beer at retail to the public for consumption or use without first
having received a license from the city clerk to do so.
   B.   Issuance; Separate Licenses:
      1.   Said license shall be issued by the city clerk upon the application
of the owner, manager or operator of any place where low point beer is sold;
and if any one person shall operate more than one place of business within the
city, then a separate license shall be obtained for each place of business.
      2.   No license shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation where
the persons consuming said low point beer within the place of business cannot
be seen from the street.
   C.   License Nontransferable: The license issued hereunder shall not be
transferable. (1986 Code § 2-36; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3B-3: LICENSE FEE:
There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low point beer within the city
an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) if he sells the low point beer in
the original package and not for consumption on the premises; or if he sells
the low point beer for consumption on and/or off the premises, an annual
license fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), which license fee shall be paid in
advance. Provided that a city license shall not be granted unless the applicant
already has a state license to sell such beverages. (1986 Code § 2-35; amd.
2005 Code)
3-3B-4: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE:
   A.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the police department to make
frequent inspections of all places of business where low point beer is sold,
disbursed or dispensed at retail, for the purpose of enforcing the laws of the
city, and for the purpose of ascertaining whether the operators thereof are
complying with the requirements of the law relating to the handling of low
point beer.
   B.   Violation; License Forfeiture: The violator of any of the provisions of
this article shall forfeit his license; and, when such dealers are found to be
violating the state law, the police department must provide the county attorney
with such facts and information as shall have been obtained. (1986 Code § 2-37;
amd. 2005 Code)
3-3B-5: UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley in the city any low point beer
containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume and not
more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (1986 Code § 2-38; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3B-6: UNDERAGE PERSONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Selling Or Providing: It shall be unlawful within the city limits for
any person to sell, barter, furnish or give to any minor any low point beer;
provided, that a parent as regards his own child or children is excepted from
the provisions of this article. (1986 Code § 2-39; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Possession:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall consume, or
posses with the intent to consume, low point beer in any public place, except
as provided by law.
      2.   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, a fine not to exceed
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or community service not to exceed twenty
(20) hours shall be levied. (1986 Code § 2-40; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3B-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of this article
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
POOL, BILLIARDS AND DOMINOES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: License Required; Application
3-4-3: Moral Character Of Operator
3-4-4: Time Of Operation
3-4-5: Age Limit
3-4-6: View Inside Premises
3-4-7: Specific Violations
3-4-8: Revocation Of License
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "operate" or "operates", as used in this chapter, or any other
sections or ordinances pertaining to a pool, billiard or domino hall, is
defined to mean and include the taking of any active part in the management,
conducting or carrying on of any business pertaining to a pool table, billiard
table or domino table, either for himself or as agent, servant or employee of
another, whether serving with or without pay. (1986 Code § 5-9)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   Requirement: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
association to set up, operate or conduct or permit to be set up, operated and/
or conducted in or about any place of business within the city, whether for
himself as owner, lessee or otherwise or as an agent, servant or employee of
another, whether serving with or without pay, two (2) or more pool tables,
billiard tables, or domino tables, or combination of the same, for the purpose
of having or allowing the same to be played by the public for a fee or for
profit to the owner of said business or to the operator without having first
obtained a license as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all present,
future, or pending applications for a pool, billiard or domino hall license and
to all renewals thereof, and shall require that all such applications shall
include the names of all persons who will take any part in the management,
operation, or conduct of the business in question and their approval by the
mayor and city council as hereinafter provided.
   C.   One License: Only one license fee shall be required for such place of
business. (1986 Code § 5-9)
3-4-3: MORAL CHARACTER OF OPERATOR:
The operation of a pool, billiard or domino hall by a person not of good moral
character is considered and declared to be a public nuisance. (1986 Code § 5-
13)
3-4-4: TIME OF OPERATION:
No such hall shall be operated between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on any day nor on Sunday, with the exception that
recreation centers containing pool or billiard tables but not containing domino
tables or similar tables may be opened and operated under the provisions of
this chapter between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. and five thirty
o'clock (5:30) P.M. on Sundays. (1986 Code § 5-12)
3-4-5: AGE LIMIT:
No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall be permitted to play pool,
dominoes, billiards or checkers in said pool, domino or billiard hall, unless
accompanied by parent or guardian, nor shall they be allowed to work in said
pool, billiard or domino hall. (1986 Code § 5-12)
3-4-6: VIEW INSIDE PREMISES:
   A.   Window Requirement: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to operate or conduct a public pool hall or public billiard hall or
place of business where beer is sold for consumption on the premises in the
city, except in a building with large front glass windows, or with a large
glass front, and which faces on the public street.
   B.   Curtains Or Blinds Prohibited: It shall further be unlawful for any
such person, firm or corporation, and the employees thereof, to place and
maintain blinds, curtains or any other thing upon or over such windows or glass
front which in anywise obstructs the view of the interior of such room from the
outside front of such building while such place is open for business. (1986
Code § 5-14)
3-4-7: SPECIFIC VIOLATIONS:
The following acts are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Drunkenness of the person holding such license, including any agent,
servant or employee taking any active part in the management, conducting or
carrying on of such business, or permitting any intoxicated person to loiter in
such business.
   C.   Permitting persons prohibited by ordinances of the city by reason of
age to resort to such place of business unless accompanied by parent or
guardian. (1986 Code § 5-11)
   D.   Violation of any of the laws of the state of Oklahoma pertaining to
intoxicating liquor or low point beer, or violation of any of the laws of the
state of Oklahoma in or about such place of business by the owner or lessee
thereof or any person engaged in management, operating, conducting or carrying
on of such business, or permitting anyone to violate such laws in said place of
business. (1986 Code § 5-11; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   The employment of any person to participate in the management,
operating, conducting or carrying on of such business that is not of good moral
character.
   F.   Any conduct on the part of the owner, lessee or agent, servant or
employee engaged in the management, conducting, operating or carrying on of
said business which evidences bad moral character. (1986 Code § 5-11)
3-4-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor and city council may revoke the license of any person, firm,
corporation or association to operate a pool, billiard or domino hall, and such
revocation shall operate to close any pool, billiard or domino hall under said
license upon the grounds set out in section
3-4-7 of this chapter. (1986 Code § 5-10)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
AUCTIONS; SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Auction Sales
3-5-2: Solicitation Of Orders
3-5-3: Penalty
3-5-1: AUCTION SALES:
   A.   License Fee: Before any person, firm or corporation shall sell or
expose for sale, at public or private auction in the city, any bankrupt or
other stock of goods, wares or merchandise, or shall sell or offer for sale any
merchandise of any character whatsoever in the city, at public or private
auction, the owner thereof shall first pay to the city a license fee or tax of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day such goods, wares or merchandise is
to be sold or offered for sale in the city. (1986 Code § 5-15; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Application For License: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to
sell or to offer for sale any of the goods, wares or merchandise at auction in
the city under the provisions of subsection A of this section shall make
application to the city clerk in writing, specifying the name of the owner of
the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or exposed for sale, the character
of the same, and the name of the person proposing to carry on said business,
and the place where said business is to be carried on, and the length of time
such auction business is to be conducted. (1986 Code § 5-16)
3-5-2: SOLICITATION OF ORDERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit orders for, solicit the purchase
of, or otherwise attempt to sell any goods or services or to solicit
appointments for such purposes either in person, by telephone or otherwise at
any place of residence within the city after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of any
day, unless the person soliciting such orders, purchases or appointments has
previously obtained an appointment with the occupants of such place of
residence and their consent to solicit such purchases or orders at the
approximate time involved. (1986 Code § 5-17)
3-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Application For License; Fee
3-6-3: Junkyards Prohibited; Exception
3-6-4: Yard Wall
3-6-5: Register Of Property
3-6-6: Inspection Of Register And Merchandise
3-6-7: Junk Motor Vehicles
3-6-8: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
JUNK: All kinds of previously used or secondhand rags, sacks, bottles, cans,
paper, metal and used or damaged automobiles, or other vehicles or machinery
not in running condition or not suitable economically to be repaired or
restored to their original use, or used or damaged automobiles, vehicles or
other machinery purchased, acquired or used for salvage purposes for the
benefit of the metal, material or parts therein contained in whole or in part,
and all other articles of whatsoever nature or kind, commonly purchased after
primary use and kept or sold for subsequent use, consumption or traffic, and
otherwise commonly known as "junk".
JUNK DEALER: Any person, firm or corporation, or agent, employee or servant
thereof engaged in the business of buying, selling or offering for sale or
trade, or otherwise dealing in junk, including the storing or the displaying of
junk or the dismantling, stripping or removal of parts from used automobiles or
other vehicles or machinery in whole or in part for the benefit of the metal,
materials or parts therein contained or stripped. Automobile and tire dealers
who receive or accept used automobiles or tires as down payment or part payment
upon commodities handled by them shall not be included within the terms of this
chapter; provided however, in the case of automobile dealers, that such used
automobiles are not dismantled or stripped in whole or in part by such
automobile dealer for the purpose of obtaining the metal, material, salvage or
parts therefrom.
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Means and includes all automobiles, trucks or other motor
vehicles in such used or damaged condition as not to be economically suitable
to be repaired and restored to their original intended use; all automobiles,
trucks or other motor vehicles from which the metals, materials or parts have
been or are being removed for other use; and all automobiles, trucks or other
motor vehicles which are not in operating condition, unless such latter
automobiles, trucks or other motor vehicles are actually being repaired by or
on behalf of the owner thereof within the time reasonably required for the
repair of the same after they have ceased to operate. Any automobile, truck or
other motor vehicle which is required by law to bear and display a license tag
and which is not in safe operating condition and does not bear and display a
current license tag as required by law shall be presumed to be a "junk motor
vehicle".
JUNKYARD: Includes any place where "junk", as defined herein, is dismantled or
stripped in whole or in part, bought, sold, stored, displayed or otherwise
dealt with by a junk dealer. (1986 Code § 5-25)
3-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Application: Application for a license to operate a junkyard shall be
made to the city clerk on forms provided by him. The application shall contain
the name of the junk dealer, the location of the junkyard or business, and such
other information as the mayor and city council may from time to time require.
(1986 Code § 5-27)
   B.   Fee: For the operation of a business of dealing in junk, the license
fee for each shop or yard shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. (Ord. 3310,
4-18-2006)
3-6-3: JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Prohibition; New Junkyards: No new junkyard shall be established within
the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Exception; Existing Junkyards: This prohibition shall not apply to
junkyards existing in areas which may subsequently be annexed within the
municipal boundaries. Such preexisting junkyards in annexed areas shall, upon
annexation, secure the license for operation, and shall comply with the other
provisions of this chapter within the time limits from the date of such
annexation as are granted to junkyards existing within the city upon the
initial effective date hereof. (1986 Code § 5-28)
3-6-4: YARD WALL:
   A.   Fence Required; Height: In any case where a junkyard is operated in a
yard or open space outside of any building, it shall be the duty of the
operator or proprietor to erect and maintain a solid fence, not less than seven
feet (7') high, entirely around the premises where junk is stored, displayed or
visible.
   B.   Construction Materials; Maintenance: The fence shall be made of new,
noncombustible materials, sightly in appearance, and it shall be kept in good
repair at all times.
   C.   Visibility Of Junk: Junk shall be piled in such manner within the
junkyard as not to be visible from the street or alley upon which such yard
abuts, nor from the ground floor of residential or business property which may
be adjacent thereto.
   D.   Time Limit For Compliance: Any junkyard which exists on the effective
date of this chapter is given a period of thirty (30) days within which to
comply with the yard wall requirements herein set forth. (1986 Code § 5-29)
3-6-5: REGISTER OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Register; Information Required: Each junkyard operator shall maintain a
register in which he shall enter the item or items which he acquired in the
course of trading, for sale or trade, showing its true character, sufficient
for purposes of identification, the person from whom acquired, and the date on
which acquired.
   B.   Making Entries:
      1.   He shall make such entry within two (2) hours of receiving or
purchasing the property.
      2.   Every entry shall be made in ink and shall not in any manner be
obliterated or erased. (1986 Code § 5-30)
3-6-6: INSPECTION OF REGISTER AND MERCHANDISE:
The register herein required and any goods, wares and merchandise which such
junk dealer may acquire in the course of his business and offers for sale or
trade shall be subject to the inspection of the chief of police, the city
attorney, and anyone authorized in writing by the chief of police, which
authorization shall be exhibited to the junkyard dealer before inspection is
made. (1986 Code § 5-31; amd. 2005 Code)
3-6-7: JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent, employee or
servant thereof, to park and leave standing upon any public property within the
view of the public or persons living nearby, or to permit to be parked and left
standing upon any private property under his possession or control within view
of the public or persons living nearby any "junk motor vehicle", as defined in
section
3-6-1 of this chapter, except for such time as may be reasonably required to
cause the same to be removed; provided, however, that the provisions of this
section shall not apply to junk motor vehicles parked and left standing at any
place of business authorized by law to deal with, store or repair such motor
vehicles and which is operating in compliance with the zoning ordinances and
other ordinances of the city. (Ord. 3380, 11-20-2007)
3-6-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
STREET SALES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Street Sale Regulations
3-7-2: Penalty
3-7-1: STREET SALE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sales Prohibited: No person, firm or corporation shall engage in any
selling of goods, wares, automobiles and merchandise upon the streets and
alleys of the city. (1986 Code § 5-32)
   B.   Exception: Prohibition of street sales shall not apply to any such
sales of goods, wares, and merchandise on the streets and alleys of the city
when said streets and alleys have been barricaded by the police department of
the city. (1986 Code § 5-33)
3-7-2: PENALTY:
Any persons violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code; amd. Ord. 3282, 8-2-2005)
CHAPTER 8
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition
3-8-2: License Required; Fee
3-8-3: Records And Reports
3-8-4: Sale Of Property Or Pledge
3-8-5: Minors And Intoxicated Persons
3-8-6: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
Any person who lends money upon deposit, or pledge of personal property or
valuable thing, or any person who lends money upon chattel property for
security, and requires possession of property so mortgaged, on condition of
returning the same upon payment of a stipulated amount of money, hereby is
declared to be a "pawnbroker". (1986 Code § 5-18)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person, corporation, partnership or association of
any kind shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker without first having
obtained a license to do so.
   B.   Fee: The license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. (1986
Code § 5-19)
3-8-3: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Record Kept; Contents; Inspection: All persons who shall be engaged in
the business of pawnbrokers shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written
in ink, or typewritten, at the time of any loan or purchase, an accurate
account or description, in the English language, of the goods, articles, or
things pawned, pledged, or purchased, the amount of money lent or paid
therefor, the time the same was received, and the name, residence and
description of the person pawning, pledging or selling the same, which book as
well as the articles pawned or purchased, at all times, shall be open to the
inspection of the chief of police. (1986 Code § 5-20)
   B.   Daily Report, Contents: Every pawnbroker in the city shall make out and
deliver to the chief of police every day a legible and correct copy from the
book required in subsection A of this section of all personal property or other
valuable things received, deposited or purchased during the preceding day,
together with the time when received or purchased and a description of the
person by whom left in pledge. (1986 Code § 5-21)
3-8-4: SALE OF PROPERTY OR PLEDGE:
   A.   Holding Personal Property: No personal property received on pledge by
any pawnbroker shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed from the place of
business of such pawnbroker for the space of twenty four (24) hours after the
copy and statement required to be delivered to the chief of police shall have
been delivered as required by subsection
3-8-3B of this chapter. (1986 Code § 5-22)
   B.   Selling Pledge Before Default: No pawnbroker shall sell any article
received by him in pledge before the time to redeem has expired. (1986 Code §
5-23)
3-8-5: MINORS AND INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No pawnbroker shall take or receive upon deposit, pawn or pledge any personal
property of any kind from a minor; and no pawnbroker knowingly shall receive on
pawn or deposit any personal property of any kind from any person not being the
owner thereof or from any intoxicated person. (1986 Code § 5-24)
3-8-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ICE CREAM SALES FROM VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required; Insurance
3-9-2: License Fees
3-9-3: Transfer Of License
3-9-4: Public Address System Restricted
3-9-5: Penalty
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; INSURANCE:
   A.   License Required: No person should operate within the city limits any
motor vehicle used for the commercial purpose of selling ice cream, ice cream
products, or frozen novelties to the public intended for individual use and
immediate consumption without prior obtaining of a license from the city clerk
for such sales.
   B.   Proof Of Insurance: The city is authorized to approve for licensing any
vendor who pays the subsequently stated fee and provides the city clerk proof
of commercial liability insurance coverage in and on said vehicle sufficient to
meet state compulsory insurance requirements. (Ord. 3018, 6-20-1995)
3-9-2: LICENSE FEES:
The city is authorized to charge a fee for said license of five hundred dollars
($500.00) which shall be charged fully as initial application requirement
regardless of the percentage of licensing year which remains at the time of
application and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year for each subsequent
year's renewal of said licenses thereafter which shall be due July 1 as in
accordance with subsection
3-1-1C of this title. (Ord. 3018, 6-20-1995)
3-9-3: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Any person who has paid the initial fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) may
sell his business, including the transfer of said license, and the continuity
of his license shall continue to the new owner and any subsequent owners;
therefore, relieving them from the duty of paying the initial application fee.
(Ord. 3018, 6-20-1995)
3-9-4: PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM RESTRICTED:
   A.   Time For Operating System: Any person operating for commercial purposes
a vehicle used for the sale of ice cream, ice cream products, or frozen
novelties intended for individual use and immediate consumption may not utilize
or operate any public address system to facilitate the sale of their products
in city limits after sunset except during local league sponsored sporting
events at which such broadcasting may continue until the official end of such
sporting contest.
   B.   Noise Level: Any such public address system used must be in working
order and may not be played in city limits at an audible level above ninety
five (95) decibels.
   C.   Playing Music: In addition, no such public address system may play any
music or song repetitively in the same five hundred (500) square foot area for
more than one hour without changing said music or song so as not to constitute
a nuisance. (Ord. 3018, 6-20-1995)
3-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 10
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Licenses Required
3-10-3: Fees
3-10-4: Insurance
3-10-5: Drivers; Requirements And Restrictions
3-10-6: Vehicles
3-10-7: Passengers
3-10-8: Revocation Or Suspension Of Driver's License
3-10-9: Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
DRIVER'S LICENSE: A license that the driver shall be required to obtain before
operating any vehicle for the transportation of passengers for hire.
MOTOR BUS: Shall mean and include any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire
but operating on a fixed route.
OPERATOR'S LICENSE: A license that the owner of the vehicle shall be required
to obtain before utilizing any vehicle for the transportation of passengers for
hire, provided, if the operator (owner) and driver is one and the same person,
only the operator's license shall be required, provided no other person is
permitted to drive the same vehicle at any time.
TAXICAB: All motor vehicles operated for the transportation of passengers for
hire but not operating on a fixed route. (1986 Code § 21-7)
3-10-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Operators:
      1.   Requirement: It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
operating or driving a taxicab or motor bus within the city without first
having secured an operator's or driver's license. Applications for such
licenses shall be made to the city clerk by any applicant requesting same.
(1986 Code § 21-6)
      2.   Character Of Applicant: No such license shall be issued to or held
by any driver or owner who is not a person of good character, nor shall such
license be issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof would be
ineligible for a license under this chapter. (1986 Code § 21-8)
   B.   Individual Driver's License From City:
      1.   Requirement: No person shall drive a taxicab or motor bus unless and
until he has secured a driver's license therefor from the city clerk. Any owner
or operator of a taxicab or motor bus who permits or allows an unlicensed
driver to drive his taxicabs or motor buses shall, after notice and hearing,
have his license to operate revoked by the city council. (1986 Code § 21-16)
      2.   Qualifications Of Drivers: No such driver's license shall be issued
to any person who is not competent to operate a motor vehicle or who is not
familiar with traffic laws and ordinances of the city. Nor shall such driver's
license be issued to any person who does not have a valid license for the state
of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 21-18)
3-10-3: FEES:
   A.   Operators:
      1.   The annual fee, payable in advance, for an operator's license shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00) per taxicab and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
motor bus.
      2.   Every license shall expire on April 30 following the effective date
from which same is issued. No rebates or refunds shall be made.
      3.   Any license fee shall be in addition to any fee required by the
state of Oklahoma.
      4.   Whenever the number of cabs so operated shall be increased during
the license year, the licensee shall notify the city clerk of such change and
shall pay the additional fee.
      5.   The city clerk shall issue a receipt for said fee and assign to said
operator a number or numbers for each taxicab or motor bus to be covered by
said license. Said number may a transferred to any other vehicle put into
operation to replace one that has been withdrawn from service. (1986 Code § 21-
9)
   B.   Vehicles: The annual fee for a taxicab or motor bus driver's license
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1986 Code § 21-17; amd. 2005 Code)
3-10-4: INSURANCE:
   A.   Insurance Amounts: No taxicab or motor bus shall be operated unless the
taxicab/motor bus is covered by a bond or a public liability insurance policy
of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injury or death of any one
person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any number of persons
in any one accident, and with a coverage of at least twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) for property damage in any one accident. (1986 Code § 21-12; amd.
2005 Code)
   B.   Certificate Of Insurance: Prior to the issuance of any license for the
operation of any such vehicle, the owner thereof shall furnish to the city
clerk a certificate of insurance reflecting the coverage herein required.
   C.   Insurance Carrier Notify City Of Cancellation: Prior to the issuance of
a permit to operate any taxicab or motor bus, the insurance carrier shall be
required to agree that it will notify the city clerk within thirty (30) days of
the cancellation of such insurance for any reason, and it shall be the
responsibility of the owner to secure such agreement. (1986 Code § 21-12)
3-10-5: DRIVERS; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS 1 :
   A.   State License Required: No person shall drive a taxicab or motor bus or
be hired or permitted to do so, unless he is duly licensed by the state as a
chauffeur. (1986 Code § 21-11)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while
on duty to drink any intoxicating liquor or low point beer, or to use any
profane or obscene language, to shout or call to prospective passengers, or to
disturb the peace in any way, or to solicit employment by repeatedly or
persistently driving his vehicle to and fro in a short space or by otherwise
interfering with the proper and orderly access to or egress from any theater,
hall, hotel, public resort, bus station, department store, or other public
gathering, or in any other manner to obstruct or impede traffic, either by such
driving or parking. (1986 Code § 21-11; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Traffic Rules: It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab or
motor bus to obey all traffic rules and ordinances of the city and of the state
of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 21-13)
   D.   Unlawful Use Of Vehicle: It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any
taxicab or motor bus to be used in the perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor,
or for any immoral purpose. (1986 Code § 21-14)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  6-4-11E and F of this code for use of bus and taxicab stands.
3-10-6: VEHICLES:
   A.   License And Equipment Required; Inspection:
      1.   No taxicab or motor bus shall be operated unless it bears a state
license duly issued; and no such vehicle shall be operated unless it is
equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror
and windshield wiper in good condition.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the police department to furnish an annual
inspection to ascertain and determine that every taxicab or motor bus meets the
requirements of this subsection and to certify the same.
   B.   Serial Number Issued By City: Each taxicab or motor bus, while
operated, shall contain a serial body number assigned to each taxicab or motor
bus by the city clerk, which serial number shall be painted on each side and on
the rear exterior of the vehicle. No other number shall be painted on such
vehicle; provided however, the telephone number of the company or owner may be
painted thereon. (1986 Code § 21-10)
3-10-7: PASSENGERS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Passengers: It shall be the duty of the driver of any
taxicab or motor bus to accept as a passenger any person who seeks to so use
such vehicle, provided such person is not intoxicated and conducts himself in
an orderly manner. No person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a
passenger without the consent of the passenger.
   B.   Taking Most Direct Route: The driver of any such taxicab shall take his
passenger to his destination by the most direct route available from the place
where the passenger enters the cab.
   C.   Payment Of Fare: It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or refuse
to pay the lawful fare at the termination of a trip. (1986 Code § 21-15)
3-10-8: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE:
   A.   Council Authority: The city council may revoke or suspend any taxicab
or motor bus driver's license for repeated violations of traffic laws or
ordinances, or of any ordinance provision regulating the conduct of such
driver, or for any violation of any provision of this chapter upon ten (10)
days' notice of the proposed action to be taken at a city council meeting;
provided, that the licensee or its representative may appear at such city
council meeting, with or without legal counsel, to object to such license
revocation. (1986 Code § 21-19; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Reasons For Revocation Or Suspension:
      1.   A driver's license shall be revoked by the city council for any of
the following reasons:
         a.   Upon conviction for violation of any federal or state law, except
major traffic violations. (1986 Code § 21-20)
         b.   For operating a taxicab or motor bus while drunk or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or low point beer. (1986 Code § 21-20; amd.
2005 Code)
         c.   For leaving the scene of an accident.
         d.   For failure to make full report of an accident to the police
department.
         e.   For permitting any other person to use his license or
certificate.
         f.   For erasing or obliterating any official entry on his license or
identification certificate.
         g.   Upon conviction of a third major traffic violation during any one
license year. A "major traffic violation" is hereby defined to be:
            (1)   Speeding.
            (2)   Reckless driving.
            (3)   Nonobservance of lights or signs.
            (4)   Improper brakes.
            (5)   Making a left or U-turn where not permitted.
            (6)   Driving on wrong side of the street.
      2.   A driver's license may be suspended by the city council for a period
of not to exceed ninety (90) days for any of the following reasons:
         a.   First and second offenses of a major traffic violation.
         b.   Repeated infractions of minor traffic rules.
      3.   The provisions of this section are supplementary and in addition to
other penalties and fines provided by other sections of this chapter. (1986
Code § 21-20)
3-10-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating or aiding, abetting or assisting in
the violation of any provision of this chapter is guilty of a separate offense
for each provision violated, and upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-9-13 of this code for each offense. Wherever any violation is capable of
being continuing in nature, each day's continuation thereof shall constitute a
separate offense. (1986 Code § 21-21; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 11
AMBULANCE SERVICES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: License Review Board
3-11-3: License Required; Application
3-11-4: License Issuance; Fee
3-11-5: License Nontransferable
3-11-6: Inspection Of Ambulances, Equipment
3-11-7: Revocation Of License
3-11-8: Penalty
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
AMBULANCE: Any vehicle operated for hire, the purpose of which is to transport
individuals to or from hospitals or medical facilities, or between hospitals or
medical facilities for the purpose of receiving medical care, or from any
hospital or medical facility after receiving medical care.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: Any individual, association, firm or corporation operating
an ambulance or ambulances as defined herein within the city. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-
1995)
3-11-2: LICENSE REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   Authority: The ambulance committee is hereby authorized to function as
a license review board to review and pass upon the qualification of any
applicant for a license to operate an ambulance service.
   B.   Duties: The license review board shall issue licenses to applicants
qualified under this chapter, hear complaints and determine revocations of
licenses in proper cases.
   C.   Application Waiting Time; Waiver:
      1.   No license shall be issued by the board until the application shall
have been on file with the city clerk at least ten (10) days.
      2.   Any ambulance service already operating and located within the city
limits shall be exempt from the ten (10) day waiting period for license
issuance, and may continue to operate until said license is issued or
application is denied. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995)
3-11-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   Requirement: No association, person, firm or corporation shall maintain
or operate an ambulance service business or operate an ambulance within the
city without having first made application for a license to the city clerk, and
without having received a license from the city after approval thereof by the
license review board. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Qualifications Of Applicant: No association, firm or corporation shall
receive a license for the operation of an ambulance service business or an
ambulance within the city without possessing, at the time application is made
for the license, paramedic life support licensure status through the state of
Oklahoma and without meeting, at the time application is made for the license,
the following additional minimum qualifications: (Ord. 3360, 5-31-2007)
      1.   Ambulance Requirements: An applicant for a license shall own or be
in full possession under a lease purchase arrangement of a minimum of two (2)
ambulances available for service within the city. All ambulances and related
equipment contained therein shall be in proper and satisfactory operating
condition suitable for emergency use, and all ambulances shall meet all federal
and state standards as to space requirements, accessories, equipment and
supplies required to be contained within the ambulances.
      2.   Place Of Business: An applicant shall have secured and have
available a place of business where the ambulances may be kept and maintained,
the location to be within the city limits and in conformity with the zoning
ordinances of the city for the establishment and operation of an ambulance
business. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   Qualified Employees: An applicant shall have employed at the time
application is made or submit evidence of being able to employ prior to the
time the license is granted a sufficient number of trained personnel to handle
sick or injured persons in a proper and reasonable manner when rendering
services to the person. Pursuant to Oklahoma administrative code section 310:
641-3-15, each ground ambulance service shall have on staff an adequate number
of emergency medical personnel and a sufficient number of ambulances available
in order to be en route to ninety percent (90%) of all emergency calls within
five (5) minutes of the time the call is received in dispatch at the highest
level of care for which the service is licensed. The request for emergency
medical services shall be considered "received in dispatch" as soon as
sufficient information has been received to allow appropriate response, i.e.,
location of the emergency and nature of the call. Under no circumstance during
the transport of an ambulance patient shall the attendant be less than a
licensed paramedic; in addition to the requirement of licensed paramedics, each
ground ambulance service shall have drivers who, at a minimum, are certified as
a first responder, subject to any exceptions provided by Oklahoma
administrative code section 310:641-3-15. All drivers of a ground ambulance
service shall successfully complete an emergency vehicle operator course
approved by the state department of health within one hundred twenty (120) days
of employment. Emergency vehicle operators shall successfully complete a
refresher course approved by the state department of health every two (2)
years. (Ord. 3360, 5-31-2007)
      4.   Full Time Service: An applicant shall submit evidence that in
connection with the number of personnel employed or subject to employment by
the applicant, the applicant has sufficient number of personnel to maintain the
ambulance service business twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days a
week.
      5.   Response To Emergency Calls: The applicant shall agree that in
consideration of a license being issued by the city, the applicant shall make a
response to each and every call received in all emergency cases, except when
all available ambulances and equipment are in previous use, in which case the
applicant would immediately advise the police department of the city. (Ord.
3020, 6-30-1995)
      6.   Insurance: The applicant shall furnish satisfactory evidence at the
time application is made that the applicant has in force or prior to the
issuance of the license, can obtain liability insurance covering all vehicles
and the operation of the ambulance business in an amount not less than twenty
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage; one hundred twenty five
thousand dollars ($125,000.00) per individual liability for personal damage or
death, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any number of claims arising
out of a single occurrence or accident. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995; amd. 2005 Code)
      7.   Schedule Of Rates Provided To City: The applicant shall furnish with
the application a printed rate schedule of all rates and charges which shall be
imposed by the applicant upon all individuals using the ambulance service and,
if a license is issued and any subsequent change is made in the charges, to
immediately notify and furnish to the city clerk a revised schedule of the
existing rates and charges to be imposed upon anyone using the ambulance
service.
   C.   Felony Conviction: No license shall be issued to any applicant who has
been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude.
   D.   Names Of Owners: If the applicant for a license is an association, firm
or corporation or any other entity composed of more than one person other than
the applicant, the applicant shall furnish the name, address and occupation of
each and every person owning any interest in the association, firm or
corporation.
   E.   Compliance With State Standards: Any requirement which is subsequently
found to be less than a state minimum standard is void to the extent that it is
below the state's requirements.
   F.   Licensing Exceptions: No such license shall be required for any person
operating an ambulance or other vehicle who:
      1.   Renders assistance during any catastrophe or major emergency when
the ambulances authorized to operate in the city by certificate are
insufficient by number or for any other reason inadequate; or
      2.   Operates from a location outside the city and transports any patient
from a point of origin outside the city to a destination inside the city; or
      3.   Operates from a location outside the city and transports any patient
from a point of origin within the city to a destination outside the city; or
      4.   Municipal service agencies including police and fire rescue units;
or
      5.   Private companies operating an ambulance solely for the
transportation of their employees for illness or injury sustained while
performing their work. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995)
3-11-4: LICENSE ISSUANCE; FEE:
   A.   Issuance; Fee: Upon complying with all the requirements set forth in
this chapter, the license review board shall authorize the city clerk to issue
a license to the applicant to operate an ambulance service business within the
city upon payment of the prescribed license fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per ambulance per year. (Ord. 3360, 5-31-2007)
   B.   License Term; Conditions: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on June 30 of each year. License fees shall be prorated on a
monthly basis based upon the date of the issuance of the license. No license
fee shall be returned or transferred from person to person, and all licenses
issued shall bear the signature of the city clerk with the proper corporate
seal of the city affixed thereto. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995)
3-11-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued to any applicant pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall
be transferred to any other person, firm, association or corporation. Any
attempted assignment of the license shall be void as to the city. (Ord. 3020,
6-30-1995)
3-11-6: INSPECTION OF AMBULANCES, EQUIPMENT:
The license review board shall have the right at any time to direct the
inspection of all ambulances and related equipment by any designated
responsible individual which are owned or operated by the holder of a license
under the terms of this chapter. These inspections shall be made at reasonable
times and are to be for the purpose of determining that the ambulance equipment
being operated by the licensee complies with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995)
3-11-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to any other penalty provided herein, any violation of the terms of
this chapter or failure to maintain the minimum requirements set forth in this
chapter for the operation of an ambulance services business or ambulances,
shall, under the terms of this chapter, be immediate grounds for revocation by
the license review board of any license issued hereunder after due notice to
the licensee affected and a public hearing by the license review board. (Ord.
3020, 6-30-1995)
3-11-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (Ord. 3020, 6-30-1995; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 12
GAMBLING DEVICES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Operation Of Gambling Devices
3-12-2: Definition
3-12-3: Annual Fee
3-12-4: Decals
3-12-1: OPERATION OF GAMBLING DEVICES:
Every person or entity who owns and has available to any of the public for
operation, or who permits to be operated in or on his place of business,
gambling devices shall pay for such privilege an annual fee. A fee shall be
required for each device. (Ord. 3218, 8-5-2003)
3-12-2: DEFINITION:
A "gambling device" is a contrivance designed primarily for gambling purposes
which for a consideration affords the player an opportunity to obtain something
of value, the award of which is determined by chance, or any token, chip,
paper, receipt or other document which evidences, purports to evidence or is
designed to evidence participation in a lottery or the making of a bet. The
fact that the prize is not automatically paid by the device does not affect its
character as a gambling device. (Ord. 3218, 8-5-2003)
3-12-3: ANNUAL FEE:
There is hereby imposed an annual fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) on each
gambling device located in the city. (Ord. 3281, 8-2-2005)
3-12-4: DECALS:
Each gambling device shall be required to have affixed and displayed a decal
provided by the city evidencing payment of the fee. Decals shall not be
transferred from one gambling device to another. (Ord. 3218, 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 13
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: General Requirements
3-13-3: Medical Marijuana Dispensary
3-13-4: Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing And/Or Processing Facilities
3-13-5: Medical Marijuana Wholesale And/Or Storage Facilities
3-13-6: Medical Marijuana Growing For Personal Use
3-13-7: Penalty
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES: Any medical
marijuana growing or processing facility licensed by the State of Oklahoma to
grow or process medical marijuana in excess of twelve (12) plants. Growing
includes the cultivation, manufacturing, processing, packaging, and
distribution of marijuana and marijuana products. Processing includes but is
not limited to: drying, cleaning, curing, packaging, and extraction of active
ingredients to create medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or
concentrates.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: Any retail medical marijuana establishment
licensed by the State of Oklahoma and the City of Vinita to sell or dispense
medical marijuana or medical marijuana products.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE: Any individual licensed by the
State of Oklahoma and the City of Vinita to grow up to twelve (12) plants
within a single residence for personal medical use.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY: Any wholesale or storage
establishment licensed by the State of Oklahoma and the City of Vinita that
acquires, possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells
or dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the
holder of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
The City hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established by State
law or Department of Health regulations. In the event of a conflict between any
definitions contained herein, the definition promulgated by the State or the
Department of Health shall prevail. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Issued Medical Marijuana License Required: Applicants for any
license contained herein shall be required to possess a valid State of Oklahoma
issued medical marijuana license prior to making application for the City
license.
   B.   Property Inspection Prior To Issuance: The license outlined in this
chapter will be subject to property inspection by an authorized City inspector
prior to issuance to insure compliance with all codes of the City.
   C.   Scheduled Property Inspection: The property inspection will occur at a
time scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the City inspector.
   D.   Applicant Presence Required: The applicant will be required to be
present during the inspection.
   E.   Code Compliance: All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply
with all Building and Fire Codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the City
of Vinita.
   F.   Application Due Before Inspection: A Medical Marijuana Business License
Application shall be filled out and signed by the property and business owner
and submitted to the City Clerk prior to scheduling an inspection.
   G.   License Fee: A nonrefundable license fee, as established in this
chapter, shall be paid at the time the application is submitted.
   H.   License Fee Amount: The license fee shall be set according to and used
to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   I.   Distance Requirements: For the distance requirements outlined in this
chapter, the distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a
straight line from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the
use described in herein is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   J.   Enclosed And Secure Structures: All medical marijuana dispensary,
commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities, and medical
marijuana wholesale and/or storage facility establishments shall be located
within an entirely enclosed and secure structure, as required by the rules and
regulations of the Department of Health, as may be amended from time to time.
   K.   Remitting Sales Taxes: License holder shall remit all required State
and City Sales Taxes.
   L.   Intent: It is the intent of the City of Vinita that nothing in this
chapter be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health,
safety, or welfare of the citizens of the City of Vinita, or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
State law.
   M.   Additional Regulations:
      1.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all City
property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
      3.   Revocation or suspension of Municipal issued marijuana license;
hearing.
         a.   The Mayor or designee shall revoke or suspend a license issued
under this section on any of the following grounds:
            (1)   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false
statement of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not
disclosed at the time of his application, and such fact would have constituted
just cause for refusal to issue the license;
            (2)   Violation of City ordinance, State law, or Department of
Health regulations governing medical marijuana.
         b.   Prior to suspension or revocation the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the Mayor, or his designee. If an employee has been designated by
the Mayor, or his designee, such employee shall make a report to the Mayor, or
his designee, together with a recommendation as to whether the license should
be suspended or revoked.
      4.   Any person or entity applying for or issued a license by the City of
Vinita shall comply with all State law and Department of Health rules and
regulations, as may be amended from time to time.
      5.   Revocation of the State issued license shall result in immediate
revocation of the City issued license. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-3: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:
Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed within the Municipal
boundaries of Vinita, Oklahoma upon compliance with section
3-13-2 of this chapter, issuance of a retail medical marijuana dispensary
business license and the following additional provisions.
   A.   Districts Allowed: A medical marijuana dispensary shall only be located
within one of the following zoning districts.
      1.   C-1 Convenience Commercial District, upon approval of the Board of
Adjustments;
      2.   C-2 Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District; or
      3.   C-3 General Commercial District.
   B.   Location Restriction: Medical marijuana dispensary business license
shall not be granted to any applicant where the proposed location would be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of any public or private school.
   C.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
      2.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid Sales Tax permit
issued by the State of Oklahoma.
      3.   No on premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be allowed.
      4.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   D.   License Fees: There shall be a business license fee in the amount of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and an annual renewal fee in the amount
of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The annual business license will
expire on June 30th and shall be renewed prior to July 1st each year. Failure
to renew will result in a penalty fee of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee
and shall require re-inspection as required by subsection
3-13-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-4: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES:
Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the Municipal boundaries of Vinita, Oklahoma upon compliance
with section
3-13-2 of this chapter, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/
or facility license and the following additional provisions.
   A.   Districts Allowed: Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or
processing facility shall only be located within one of the following zoning
districts.
      1.   A-1 Agricultural District;
      2.   I-1 Light Industrial District; or
      3.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   The facility shall be secure with limited access. The secure area
must be locked at all times. A key or access code shall be provided to all
emergency services (fire, police and EMS). Changing the code or key shall not
be allowed without proper notification to all emergency services.
      2.   The establishment must maintain a valid Sales Tax permit issued by
the State of Oklahoma.
      3.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public right-
of-way.
      4.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all Building and Fire Codes adopted by the
State of Oklahoma and the City of Vinita.
      5.   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   C.   License Fees: There shall be a business license fee in the amount of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and an annual renewal fee in the amount
of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The annual business license will
expire on June 30th and shall be renewed prior to July 1st of each year.
Failure to renew will result in a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the annual
fee and shall require re-inspection as required by subsection
3-13-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITIES:
Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed within
the Municipal boundaries of Vinita, Oklahoma upon compliance with section
3-13-2 of this chapter, issuance of a medical marijuana wholesale and/or
storage facility license and the following additional requirements.
   A.   Districts Allowed: Medical marijuana wholesale or storage facility
shall only be located within one of the following zoning districts.
      1.   A-1 Agricultural District;
      2.   I-1 Light Industrial District; or
      3.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   The facility shall be secure with limited access. The secure area
must be locked at all times. A key or access code shall be provided to all
emergency services (fire, police and EMS). Changing the code or key shall not
be allowed without proper notification to all emergency services.
      2.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
      3.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid Sales Tax permit
issued by the State of Oklahoma.
   C.   License Fees: There shall be a business license fee in the amount of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and an annual renewal fee in the amount
of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The annual business license will
expire on June 30th and shall be renewed prior to July 1st of each year.
Failure to renew will result in a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the annual
fee and shall require re-inspection as required by subsection
3-13-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-6: MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE:
Medical marijuana growing for personal use is hereby allowed within the
Municipal boundaries of Vinita, Oklahoma upon compliance with section
3-13-2 of this chapter, issuance of a medical marijuana growing for personal
medical use license and the following additional provisions.
   A.   Any license issued to an individual for the growing of medical
marijuana for personal use will be for the growing of medical marijuana at the
individual's primary residence. The City Clerk shall be notified immediately
upon any change of address of the licensee.
   B.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for medical
marijuana cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key
or equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively
being supervised in person by the permit holder.
   C.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-
of-way.
   D.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed one thousand watts (1,000 W)
per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   E.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   F.   The primary use of the residential property in which medical marijuana
is grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning
cooking, eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress
and egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation
will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or
sanitation/bathing.
   G.   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in a residence.
   H.   Any individual licensed to grow marijuana for personal use shall have a
license issued by the State of Oklahoma authorizing the use of medical
marijuana. Said license shall be made available to any authorized City employee
upon request.
   I.   There shall be a license fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00)
and an annual renewal fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). The annual
license will expire on June 30th and shall be renewed prior to July 1st each
year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty fee of fifty percent (50%) of
the annual fee and shall require re-inspection as required by subsection
3-13-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
3-13-7: PENALTY:
In addition to license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of the
provisions contained in this chapter shall also be deemed an offense and
punishable, as provided in this Code. (Ord. 3684, 3-19-2019)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE (911)
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definition
4-1-2: Operation And Fee Authorized
4-1-3: Fee Imposed
4-1-4: Prank Calls To 911
4-1-1: DEFINITION:
Pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2813, "emergency telephone service"
means any telephone system utilizing a three (3) digit number 911, for
reporting an emergency to the appropriate public agency providing law
enforcement, fire, medical or other emergency services, including ancillary
communications systems and personnel necessary to pass the reported emergency
to the appropriate emergency service and personnel. (Ord. 2946, 3-3-1992, eff.
5-4-1992)
4-1-2: OPERATION AND FEE AUTHORIZED:
Pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2814, the city is authorized to
provide for the operation of an emergency telephone service and is further
authorized to impose an emergency telephone fee for such service in areas,
subject to the jurisdiction of the city, for which emergency telephone service
has been contracted. The city is further authorized to perform other acts as
are necessary for the protection and preservation of the public health if
necessary for the operation of the emergency telephone system. (Ord. 2946, 3-3-
1992, eff. 5-4-1992)
4-1-3: FEE IMPOSED:
Pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2814, the city is hereby authorized by
this chapter to impose such fee in an amount not to exceed five percent (5%)
during the first year of the fee and not to exceed three percent (3%) in any
year thereafter of the tariff rate in areas subject to the jurisdiction of the
city for which emergency telephone service has been contracted. (Ord. 2946, 3-
3-1992, eff. 5-4-1992)
4-1-4: PRANK CALLS TO 911:
It is unlawful for any person to call the number 911 for the purpose of making
a false alarm or complaint or reporting false information which could result in
the dispatch of emergency services from any public agency provider. Any person
violating the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of
an offense punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (Ord. 3051, 12-3-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Obstructing Health Officer
4-2-2: Discarding Medicine On Street
4-2-3: Quarantine, Violations
4-2-4: Abandoned Iceboxes, Refrigerators
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the city, or the state of Oklahoma. (1986 Code § 11-8)
4-2-2: DISCARDING MEDICINE ON STREET:
It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to throw, leave or
deposit, or cause to be thrown, left or deposited upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk, or in any of the parks or other public places, or on any
private property within the city, any medicine of any kind or description
whatsoever. (1986 Code § 11-7)
4-2-3: QUARANTINE, VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation, concerning
quarantine, of the board of health, or any officer charged with enforcement of
such order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (1986 Code § 11-9; amd.
2005 Code)
4-2-4: ABANDONED ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave in a place
accessible to children any abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more which has
an airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily
released for opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator or container
without first removing the door, lock or fastener. (1986 Code § 11-10; amd.
2005 Code)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of an offense,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. Each day upon which a violation continues
constitutes a separate violation. (1986 Code § 11-12; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisances Defined; Prohibited
4-3-2: Persons Responsible
4-3-3: Time Does Not Legalize
4-3-4: Remedies
4-3-5: Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
4-3-6: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
4-3-7: Health Nuisances; Abatement
4-3-8: Drainage Ditches
4-3-9: Congregations And Littering
4-3-10: Political Advertising Signs
4-3-11: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
4-3-12: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-3-13: Procedure Cumulative
4-3-14: Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCES DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisance: A "nuisance" is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or is any thing or condition, which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal, or
basin, or any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   Public Nuisance: A "public nuisance" is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a private nuisance. (1986 Code § 13-1)
   D.   Nuisance Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee, or
other) to create or maintain a nuisance within the city, or to permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city. (1986 Code §
13-10)
4-3-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1986 Code § 13-2)
4-3-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1986 Code § 13-3)
4-3-4: REMEDIES:
   A.   Public Nuisance: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court.
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court.
      3.   Civil action.
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12.
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1986 Code § 13-
4)
   B.   Private Nuisance: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action.
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15.
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1986 Code § 13-
5)
4-3-5: POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
   A.   Determination: As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city
has power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its
corporate limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public
parks, and the public water supply, outside of its corporate limits.
   B.   Abatement: Whenever it is practical to do so, the city has power
summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (1986 Code § 13-6)
4-3-6: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Enumeration: In addition to other public nuisances declared by other
sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public
nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale, or offering for sale, of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Intoxicating Liquor: The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of
intoxicating liquor in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or
the keeping of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or
furnished in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city.
      3.   Obscene Books, Objects: The exposure, display, sale, or distribution
of obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or
objects; or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or
distributed.
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards, or otherwise.
      5.   Prostitution Places: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Unlawful Places: The keeping of a place where activities in
violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      7.   Public Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in violation
of the ordinances of the city, or the keeping of a place where such dances are
held.
      8.   Exposure Of Diseased Persons: The public exposure of a person having
a contagious disease.
      9.   Loud Noises: The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises.
      10.   Electrical Interference With Radio Reception: The operation or use
of any electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes
with radio or television reception by others.
      11.   Crowds Obstructing Public Ways: Any use of a street or sidewalk or
a place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinances.
      12.   Water Or Ice Falling From Building: Permitting water or other
liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure
upon any street or sidewalk.
      13.   Polluted Water; Mosquito Breeding: All wells, pools, cisterns,
bodies, or containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to
breed, or which are so constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to
endanger the public safety.
      14.   Weeds And Refuse: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of
manure, refuse, or other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on
which such exist.
      15.   Dangerous Buildings:
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay, or other conditions.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      16.   Dangerous Pit Or Hole: Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      17.   Fire Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the
public safety.
      18.   Dangerous Occupations: Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety, or welfare.
      19.   Vehicle Storage In Residence District: Any motor vehicle (whether
in operating condition or not), or any trailer without a current vehicle plate
as required by law for vehicles used on the public highways, when stored or
kept in a residence district.
      20.   Stables; Noise And Sanitation: Any stable or other place where
animals are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the
city, by reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by reason
of lack of sanitation.
      21.   Dog Kennels; Noise: The keeping of any dog kennels within this city
for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall become offensive or annoying to
the public by reason of the barking and noise made by the animals therein
contained.
      22.   Cesspools; Privies:
         a.   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse, or other filthy substance.
         b.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the city.
      23.   Objectionable Deposits: Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs,
manure, decayed or decaying vegetable matter, left, kept or maintained in such
condition as to endanger the public health.
      24.   Hog Pens: The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of this
city.
      25.   Hides Of Animals: Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in
any exposed or open place within the limits of the city.
      26.   Defective Ditches, Receptacles: Any unclean, foul, leaking or
broken or defective ditch, drain, gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box
or other receptacle, in the city.
   B.   Cumulative Provisions: The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms. (1986 Code §
4-3-7: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Order To Abate; Notice:
      1.   Pursuant to authority granted in accordance with 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the
owner or occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such
premises, at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition
conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the
transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public
health, within twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be
reasonable, and a failure to do so shall constitute an offense.
      2.   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and within the state.
If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant, or
agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served by posting a
copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one issue of a
newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs Imposed: If the order is not complied with,
the health officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and
the cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and the cost of removing
or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other city utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of water from the city water
system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as part of such
utility bill to which it is added, and shall become due and payable, and be
subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city
utility service, such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
(1986 Code § 13-21)
4-3-8: DRAINAGE DITCHES:
   A.   Impeding Drainage: Any culvert, driveway, pipe, or other obstacle upon
or in the dedicated streets, alleys or ways of the city which impedes the flow
of water through drainage ditches now constructed or which might hereafter be
constructed by the city for the purpose of proper drainage of water falling
from any rainfalls, which might reasonably be anticipated, shall be and are
hereby declared to a public nuisances endangering and interfering with travel
upon and the repair and maintenance of city streets and annoying, injuring and
endangering the comfort, repose, health and safety of the citizens of the city.
(1986 Code § 13-22)
   B.   Notice; Abatement By City: All public nuisances existing contrary to
the provisions of this section not abated by the owners or occupants of
adjoining premises or their agents within ten (10) days after they shall be
given notice as provided herein, shall be abated by the street commissioner or
other officer or employee of the city, designated by motion or resolution of
the city council and acting under the direction of the city council by digging
up, breaking, if necessary or not reasonably avoidable, and removing such
culvert, driveway, pipe, or other obstacle and opening up such drainage ditch,
and leaving the same open. (1986 Code § 13-23)
   C.   Notice In Writing; Delivery: The notice herein mentioned shall be in
writing directing the owner or occupant of premises adjoining such nuisance to
abate the same by removing such obstacle impeding drainage, and shall be given
by mailing to the owner or occupant of such adjoining premises at his or their
last known post office address, or to both, if their names and post office
addresses can be ascertained with reasonable diligence, by registered or
certified mail or by delivery of such notice to such owner or occupant
personally by any officer, employee or agent of the city or by posting such
notice at some conspicuous place upon such premises if the name or mailing
address of the owner or occupant of said premises cannot be ascertained with
reasonable diligence. (1986 Code § 13-24)
4-3-9: CONGREGATIONS AND LITTERING:
   A.   Congregation Of Persons: Any assembly or congregation of two (2) or
more persons loitering or spending their time idly after dark upon public or
private streets, alleys, driveways, parking lots or other property within
public view or hearing, where some member or members of such assembly,
congregation or group cannot be identified by the city police, or who are not
promptly identified to the city police, are engaged or contemporaneously have
engaged in disturbing the peace, offending public decency, using vile or
profane language, annoying, injuring or endangering the comfort, repose,
health, or safety of others or littering public or private property by
throwing, dropping, laying or leaving cans, bottles, wastepaper, trash or other
refuse upon such public or private property, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. (1986 Code § 13-25)
   B.   Abatement By Chief Of Police: When any such public nuisance is in
existence within the presence or personal knowledge of the chief of police or
any member of the police department of the city or upon written complaint of
the existence of such public nuisance, as herein defined, by any citizen of the
city, such chief of police or member of the police department of the city may
abate such nuisance by ordering all members of such assembly, congregation or
group to disperse and to cease and desist from loitering or spending their time
idly at any public place or place open to the public or within public view
within the limits of the city, and may order minors under the age of eighteen
(18) in such assembly, congregation or group to go to their respective homes or
places of abode. (1986 Code § 13-26; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Refusal To Comply: Any person who refuses to comply with or violates
any order of the chief of police or any member of the police department
pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense against the city, unless
at the time of the giving of such order by the chief of police or any member of
the police department, such person shows justifiable cause to remain
temporarily upon the streets or other public place within the city for some
limited time to accomplish some lawful and legitimate purpose. (1986 Code § 13-
27)
   D.   Littering: It is further declared to be unlawful for any person to
litter any public or private street, alley, driveway, parking lot, or other
property not his own, by throwing, dropping, laying or leaving bottles, cans,
wastepaper, trash, or other refuse in or upon such public or private property.
(1986 Code § 13-28)
4-3-10: POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   A.   Definition: A "political advertising sign" is defined as any sign,
poster or placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of
furthering or advertising the candidacy of any person who is or intends to
become or may be a candidate for the election to any public office, whether
such public office be in the local, state or federal government, or any
subdivision thereof. (1986 Code § 13-29)
   B.   Prohibited On Streets And Easements: No person, firm or corporation
shall erect or display any political advertising sign on any street or alley
right of way, or upon any public utility easement within the city. (1986 Code §
13-30)
   C.   Prohibited On Telephone Poles: No person, firm or corporation shall
place, tack, nail, staple or glue any political advertising sign on any
telephone, telegraph, electric or street lighting pole within the city. (1986
Code § 13-31)
   D.   Nuisance Declared: Any political advertising sign erected, placed or
displayed in violation of the provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance. No
property right shall exist in such sign erected, placed or displayed in
violation of the provisions hereof, and such sign may be removed and destroyed
by any person. (1986 Code § 13-32)
4-3-11: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Dangerous Conditions; Immediate Abatement: Some nuisances are of such
nature as to constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally.
It is recognized that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to
require, the mayor or other appropriate officer or agency of the city
government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Statement Of Nuisance Submitted To Council: The chief of the fire
department, the chief of police, the city attorney, the building inspector, the
electrical inspector, the plumbing inspector, or any other officer subordinate
to the mayor, may submit, through or with the consent of the mayor, to the city
council, a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the
ordinances of the city or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated. The mayor himself, the health officer, any council member, or any
resident or residents of the city may submit such a statement and a request or
recommendation to the city council.
   C.   Council Determination; Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   The city council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance
is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject,
the council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers,
and other effects.
      2.   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the
names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   D.   Order To Abate; City Abatement; Costs Imposed:
      1.   If the city council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      2.   If such peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare would be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the council shall direct the mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it
abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 16.
      3.   The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected. (1986 Code § 13-8)
4-3-12: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (1986 Code § 13-9)
4-3-13: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other, and
the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating
any particular nuisance. (1986 Code § 13-33)
4-3-14: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or who fails to do any act
required by any such provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision
declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who
violates any legal order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who
maintains any nuisance as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1986 Code § 13-34; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS; TRASH; DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Legislative Intent
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Property Maintenance By Owner Or Occupant
4-4-4: Report Nuisance Conditions To City; Hearing
4-4-5: Hearing By Council; Order Abatement
4-4-6: Abatement By City Or Contract; Cost
4-4-7: Failure To Pay Costs
4-4-8: Service Of Notice
4-4-9: Enforcement Of State Law; Administrative Duties
4-4-10: Penalty
4-4-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the city council to conform
hereby to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111, and hereby to
repeal any and all ordinances of this city in conflict herewith. (1986 Code §
13-11)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: The word "trash" extends to the widest sense of that term, and includes,
but without limitation upon any other meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves,
debris, paper, combustible materials, offal, rubbish, waste, and useless or
unused or uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
WEED:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1. Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of said weeds;
      2. Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3. Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4. Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5. Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6. Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (1986 Code § 13-20; amd. 2005
Code)
4-4-3: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
   A.   Prohibited Condition: No person shall permit any lot, yard, parkway, or
sidewalk, or the space abutting thereon, to the center of the street or to the
center of the alley, owned, occupied or controlled by him or for which he is
agent, or over which he has charge for the owner, to become covered or
overgrown with weeds or other objectionable, obnoxious or injurious growth or
accumulation.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any lot, yard, sidewalk, parkway, or space abutting
thereon, to the center of the street or alley, which shall become overgrown and
covered with weeds or other objectionable or injurious growth or accumulations,
so as to become offensive to view or detrimental to the general health of the
city, is hereby deemed and declared to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 3016, 5-16-
1995)
4-4-4: REPORT NUISANCE CONDITIONS TO CITY; HEARING:
   A.   Report To Clerk: Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an
accumulation of trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these
conditions, upon any premises within the limits of the city by reason of which
such premises appear to him to be in any condition as listed below shall report
such condition to the city clerk:
      1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and
the community;
      2.   A hazard to traffic;
      3.   A fire hazard to the danger of property; or
      4.   Any two (2) or more of such results in combination. (1986 Code § 13-
12)
   B.   Report Placed On Council Agenda: Upon receiving the report prescribed
by subsection A of this section, or upon receipt of equivalent information from
any reliable source, the mayor shall place upon the agenda of the city council
for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date of meeting thereof, such
as will permit giving the notices prescribed by statutory law, the question
whether such premises, by reason of the conditions specified, are detrimental
to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community, or a hazard to
traffic, or a fire hazard to the danger of property, or any two (2) or more of
such results in combination. (1986 Code § 13-13)
   C.   Hearing Notice To Owner: Forthwith, and at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing, the mayor shall give written notice of such hearing by certified
mail with return receipt requested to the owner of such property at the address
shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the
county in which such property is located. (1986 Code § 13-14)
4-4-5: HEARING BY COUNCIL; ORDER ABATEMENT:
Upon the date specified in such notice, the city council shall hear the matter
and shall receive information thereon, including anything which may be
presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. If
the council determines that the conditions specified in subsection
4-4-4A of this chapter exist upon such premises, it shall order the property to
be cleaned of trash or the weeds and grass cut or mowed, or both cleaning and
cutting and mowing, if necessary to abate the conditions found to exist. (1986
Code § 13-15)
4-4-6: ABATEMENT BY CITY OR CONTRACT; COST:
   A.   Work Performed By City Or Contract: The work ordered to be performed
under section
4-4-5 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the city under
supervision of the mayor, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best
bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts by
public bid. (1986 Code § 13-16)
   B.   Cost Determined; Statement Issued:
      1.   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under
section
4-4-5 of this chapter, the mayor shall report the cost thereof to the city
council.
      2.   Such report shall be itemized as to each tract, as follows: labor,
machinery, rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of notice and other
costs.
      3.   The city council shall examine the report, and after receiving
appropriate information, shall determine the total actual costs of the work and
shall direct the city clerk to forward a statement and demand payment thereof
by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the owner of the property
at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of
the county in which the property lies. (1986 Code § 13-17)
4-4-7: FAILURE TO PAY COSTS:
If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by subsection
4-4-6B of this chapter, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of such costs to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property upon which the work was done is located, to be levied upon the
property and to be collected by the county treasurer in the manner prescribed
by the law of this state. (1986 Code § 13-19)
4-4-8: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by the
return of the officer making such service, certified in his official capacity,
and filed in the office of the city clerk. (1986 Code § 13-18)
4-4-9: ENFORCEMENT OF STATE LAW; ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES:
   A.   Weeds And Trash: The city attorney and the assistant city attorney are
hereby designated administrative officers for the purpose of carrying out the
duties of the mayor and city council in the enforcement of the provisions of
state law, 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111, relating to the cleaning and
mowing of property. The city attorney or the assistant city attorney is
empowered to act individually in the enforcement of this statute. (1986 Code §
13-35)
   B.   Dilapidated Buildings: The city attorney and the assistant city
attorney are hereby designated administrative officers for the purpose of
carrying out the duties of the mayor and city council in the enforcement of the
provisions of state law, 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112, relating to
dilapidated buildings. The city attorney or the assistant city attorney is
empowered to act individually in the enforcement of this statute. (1986 Code §
13-36)
4-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or who fails to do any act
required by any such provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision
declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who
violates any legal order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter or who
maintains any nuisance as defined in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. (1986 Code § 13-34; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Accumulation; Container Requirements
4-5-3: Collection Of Refuse
4-5-4: Service Charges
4-5-5: Rubble Accumulation And Collection
4-5-6: Disposal Of Wastes
4-5-7: Uncollected Garbage; Public Nuisance
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
EXCESS VOLUME: Any amount of garbage and/or rubbish that will not fit inside of
the city provided container with the lid capable of being fully closed without
force.
GARBAGE: Shall mean putrescible wastes, and shall include all such substances
from all public and private establishments and from all residences. It shall
not, however, be construed to include human sewage.
HEALTH OFFICER: The medical director of the Craig County health department or
his authorized representative.
REFUSE: Shall include the terms "garbage", "rubbish" and "rubble" as defined in
this section.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, cardboard, rags, grass cuttings, and all
other similar waste materials which can be placed in containers of the type
specified and required by this chapter.
RUBBLE: Tree limbs, scrap lumber, scrap building materials, discarded furniture
and appliances, dilapidated buildings, discarded fence posts, old tires, and
any other similar earthen, wooden, plastic, metal, or rubber waste materials
too large to be placed in containers.
SERVICE UNIT: One standard refuse container of not more than thirty two (32)
gallon capacity, or four (4) cubic feet.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the Vinita solid waste department. (Ord.
3348, 3-6-2007; amd. Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
4-5-2: ACCUMULATION; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Containers Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit or place refuse upon any private or
public property unless the same shall be enclosed in an approved container in
conformity with subsection B of this section.
      2.   A number of containers sufficient to hold refuse that will
accumulate between collections shall be provided by the owner or occupant of
each premises, if such is not provided for by the city. (1986 Code § 9-2)
   B.   Approved Containers:
      1.   All residents, businesses or other individuals or entities shall use
the refuse containers or roll-off containers supplied by the city, or provide
their own, if such containers are not provided by the city. (Ord. 3348, 3-6-
2007)
      2.   In the event the city does not provide a container, residents shall
provide refuse containers described as follows: The refuse containers shall be
portable, with side handles, constructed of galvanized metal or equivalent in
such manner as to be strong, not easily corrodible, rodentproof, flyproof, and
shall have a tightfitting lid. Lids shall be kept in place on the receptacle at
all times except when depositing or removing wastes. Such containers shall have
a capacity of not more than thirty two (32) gallons, and racks or other means
to prevent overturning shall be provided. (1986 Code § 9-3; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   (Rep. by Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
      4.   It shall be unlawful to destroy, mutilate or in other ways damage
the city refuse containers. (1986 Code § 9-3; amd. 2005 Code)
      5.   No rubble will be deposited into any city provided containers except
roll-off containers.
      6.   In addition to all penalties provided by this chapter, a charge of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be made to the resident or entity with a
city provided ninety six (96) gallon container if said container is destroyed,
damaged, or stolen. Further, in addition to all penalties provided by this
chapter, a charge of two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00) shall be made
to the entity with a city provided commercial container if said container is
destroyed, damaged, or stolen. (Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
4-5-3: COLLECTION OF REFUSE:
   A.   Authorized Collector:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation, other than the city or its agent,
shall collect, transport, or dispose of refuse within the corporate limits of
the city, except with approval by the city. (Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
      2.   Only enclosed packer trucks and approved roll-off containers shall
be used. (1986 Code § 9-4; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   No person, firm or corporation shall pilfer or otherwise remove
refuse from the property of another within the corporate limits of the city
without the consent of the owner of such property. (1986 Code § 9-4)
   B.   Collection Frequency: Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from each
residence and each business at frequencies determined by motion of the city
council from time to time. (1986 Code § 9-5)
   C.   Placement Of Containers:
      1.   Containers shall be placed only at designated locations, as
determined by the solid waste department, and shall face the proper direction
for collection with the lid completely closed or capable of being completely
closed without force.
      2.   The city will make special arrangements to assist with placing a
resident's container at the designated location for collection when the solid
waste department determines it is appropriate to do so. (Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
      3.   No authorized agency or person shall collect refuse from containers
not so placed and maintained. (1986 Code § 9-6)
4-5-4: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Monthly Billing: A monthly refuse service charge shall be assessed and
collected from each business, institution or establishment and from each
residential unit within the city. The city clerk will bill and collect said
refuse charge to be made in accordance with this section. (1986 Code § 9-9)
   B.   Rates Established:
      1.   Residential: The minimum service charge for each residential unit
shall be an amount(s) established by motion or resolution of the city council
from time to time.
      2.   Business: The minimum service charge for each business establishment
shall be an amount(s) established by motion or resolution of the city council
from time to time. (1986 Code § 9-9; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   Residential And Business: An additional service charge, in an amount
(s) established by motion or resolution of the city council from time to time,
shall be assessed for:
         a.   Requiring the return of a refuse truck to empty a container that
was not properly placed for collection or was blocked by an obstruction and not
accessible for collection,
         b.   The collection of excess volume, or
         c.   The collection of rubble. (Ord. 3416, 11-18-2008)
   C.   Excessive Volume Of Refuse:
      1.   Those businesses and other establishments which generate a volume of
refuse in excess of normal amounts as determined by the superintendent shall be
charged an additional sum to be set by city council for each establishment.
      2.   Schools, hospitals and other governmental buildings shall be charged
at the same rate as business establishments. (1986 Code § 9-9)
      3.   Any resident having excess volume more than two (2) times in any one
month will be required to have two (2) residential polycarts. (Ord. 3416, 11-
18-2008)
   D.   Payment Of Charges; Delinquencies:
      1.   It shall be the duty of each person, firm, corporation, institution
or establishment to pay the charges herein provided by the tenth day of each
month, at the same time and in the same manner provided for the payment of
water bills 1 .
      2.   If not so paid, such service shall be discontinued along with the
water service and at the same time, and shall be subject to the same penalties
for restoration of water service. (1986 Code § 9-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
4-5-5: RUBBLE ACCUMULATION AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Accumulation Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
or place rubble on any private or public property, or to allow rubble to
accumulate in the city, except that the same may be accumulated temporarily for
not more than thirty (30) days pending collection. (1986 Code § 9-7)
   B.   Preparation For Collection: Tree limbs not exceeding three inches (3")
in diameter shall be cut in lengths not to exceed three feet (3') and not to
exceed fifty (50) pounds. Other rubble shall be reduced to a size and weight
convenient for collection. (1986 Code § 9-7; amd. 2005 Code)
4-5-6: DISPOSAL OF WASTES:
   A.   Landfills: All garbage, rubbish and rubble shall be disposed by
sanitary landfill and cover. Sites for landfill shall be approved by the city
council and state department of environmental quality.
   B.   Burning; Scavenging: The burning of garbage or rubbish within the
corporate limits of the city, or at the disposal area, is prohibited 1 . No
person shall scavenge junk or otherwise remove any waste materials from the
disposal site without a written agreement with the city. (1986 Code § 9-8; amd.
2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 7 of this title.
4-5-7: UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE; PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Garbage, rubbish or rubble uncollected due to failure to pay the refuse service
charge, or due to improper type, placing or maintenance of containers is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. (1986 Code § 9-10)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each and every violation of this chapter shall constitute
a separate offense and each day on which a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense and be punishable as such. (1986 Code § 9-11; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Sale Of Fireworks
4-6-2: Discharge Of Fireworks
4-6-3: Exception; Public Displays
4-6-4: Penalty
4-6-1: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to display for sale,
offer for sale or sell within the corporate limits of the city, any fireworks
of any type, nature or description; provided however, that this section shall
not prohibit the sale of fireworks at those locations within the limits of the
city recommended by the planning commission and annually approved by the city
council. (1986 Code § 8-18)
4-6-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to set off or detonate
any fireworks of an explosive nature or noise emitting type, nature or
description within the corporate limits of the city. (1986 Code § 8-19)
4-6-3: EXCEPTION; PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the
presentation of public displays of fireworks by responsible persons or
organizations who have first obtained permission of the city council for the
presentation of such displays. (1986 Code § 8-20)
4-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1986 Code § 8-29; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ANTI-BURNING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Short Title; Definitions
4-7-2: Burning Restrictions
4-7-3: Penalty
4-7-1: SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
VINITA, OKLAHOMA, ANTI-BURNING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Definitions:
    COMMERCIAL OPEN BURNING: Burning of natural vegetation shall be allowed on
Commercially zoned property, inspected and approved by the Fire Chief,
Assistant Fire Chief, or their designee.
   RECREATIONAL BURNING: Burning for the enjoyment of residents in residential
outdoor firepits, fireplaces, charcoal or gas grills.
   RESIDENTIAL OPEN BURNING: Burning of natural vegetation including trees,
limbs, grass, shrubs, and leaves, solely for the purpose of land clearance. All
fires shall be ignited after sunrise and extinguished by sunset. (Ord. 3699, 3-
19-2019)
4-7-2: BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Burning Prohibited; Exception: No person shall wilfully ignite or cause
to be ignited any fire out of doors within the limits of the City for the
purpose of burning trash, garbage, refuse, litter, rubbish, grass, brush, or
any combustible materials whether said fire be in a receptacle or incinerator
or not; except times approved by the Fire Chief or his designee, following
advance notification from the landowner upon whose property the fire is to be
set; persons shall be able to burn lawn, tree and garden waste on the property
that it was produced on, providing a water source is available and not to be
left unattended.
   B.   Mandatory Extinguishment: The Fire Department shall order the
extinguishment of any open burning that creates or adds to a hazardous
situation. Owners are required to extinguish the fire upon the order of the
Fire Department or if the fire escapes the confined area of the burn pile or
container. Failure of an owner to extinguish a fire may result in the Fire
Department extinguishing the fire at the owner's expense at a rate currently
set for fire runs outside the City limits.
   C.   Transporting To Site Within City: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to cause the transportation of any such lawn, tree, and
garden waste to any site within the corporate limits of the City of Vinita for
the specific purpose of off premises burning.
   D.   Responsibility For Open Burning; Compliance: Persons who conduct open
burning in accordance with the provisions of this chapter are not exempt or
excused from the consequences, damages or injuries that may result from such
conduct, nor are they exempt or excused from complying with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules and orders.
   E.   Compliance With State And Federal Laws: All laws, rules and regulations
of the State of Oklahoma, United States Federal government, or any subsidiary
agency, department, or branch must be followed and nothing herein shall be
construed to change or amend any such laws, rules and regulations. (Ord. 3699,
3-19-2019)
4-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-9-13 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1986 Code § 8-29; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. STATE LAWS; MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Misdemeanor Crimes And Offenses Under State Law
5-1A-2: Committing Or Aiding In Offense
5-1A-3: Theft Of Cable Television Service
5-1A-4: Texting While Driving Prohibited
5-1A-1: MISDEMEANOR CRIMES AND OFFENSES UNDER STATE LAW:
   A.   Misdemeanor Offenses Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
commit any act constituting a misdemeanor, crime or offense as defined by title
21 or 63 of the Oklahoma Statutes, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Statute Provisions Adopted By Reference: The city does hereby adopt and
incorporate by reference the provisions of titles 21 and 63 of the Oklahoma
Statutes, and authorizes law enforcement officials by and on behalf of the city
to enforce the terms thereof within the city limits, and authorizes the
prosecution of the same in the Vinita municipal court 1 . (Ord. 3104, 4-5-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-9-12 of this code for specific misdemeanor offenses and fines imposed.
5-1A-2: COMMITTING OR AIDING IN OFFENSE:
   A.   Attempts To Commit Offense: Every person who attempts to commit an
offense against the ordinances of the city, and in such attempt does any act
toward the commission of such offense, but fails or is prevented or intercepted
in the perpetration thereof, is guilty of an offense, and shall be punished in
the manner prescribed for the offense itself. (1986 Code § 14-2)
   B.   Aiding In Offense: When no punishment for counseling, aiding, or
abetting in the commission of a particular offense is expressly prescribed by
ordinance, every person who counsels, aids, or abets another in the commission
of such is guilty of an offense and punishable in the same manner as the
principal offender. (1986 Code § 14-3)
   C.   Penalty: Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may
hereafter be prescribed by ordinance, any person, firm or corporation who
commits an offense within this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable as
provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1986 Code § 14-1; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1A-3: THEFT OF CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Any person who commits any of the following acts shall
be guilty, upon conviction, of the misdemeanor of larceny of cable television
service or tampering with cable television service: (Ord. 3097, 2-2-1999; amd.
2005 Code)
      1.   Knowingly obtains or attempts to obtain cable television service
from another by means, artifice, trick, deception or devise, without payment to
the operator of a said service of all lawful compensation for each type of
service; or
      2.   Knowingly assists or instructs any other person in obtaining or
attempting to obtain any cable television service without the payment to the
operator of all lawful compensation; or
      3.   Knowingly tampers or otherwise interferes with or connects to by
means, whether mechanical, electrical, acoustical or other means, any cables
wires or other devices used for the distribution of cable television without
authority from the operator of said service; or
      4.   Knowingly manufactures; imports into this state; distributes, sells,
offers for sale, rental, or use; possesses for sale, rental, or use; or
advertises for sale, rental, or use, any device of any description, or any
plan, or kit for the device, designed in whole or in part to facilitate the
doing of any of the acts specified in subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this
section.
   B.   Evidence Of Intent: In any prosecution, as set forth in subsection A of
this section, the existence on the property and in the actual possession of the
accused, of: 1) any connection, wire, conductor or any device whatsoever, which
is connected in such a manner as would appear to permit the use of cable
television service without the same being reported for payment to and
specifically authorized by the operator of the cable television service; or 2)
the existence on the property and in the actual possession of the accused, in
quantities or volumes suggesting possession for resale, of any device designed
in whole or in part to facilitate the performance of any of the illegal acts
mentioned in subsection A of this section, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to violate, and of the violation of, the provisions of subsection A of
this section, by the accused.
   C.   Use Of Satellite Dish: The provisions of this section shall not be
construed or otherwise interpreted to prohibit an individual from owning or
operating a device commonly known as a "satellite receiving dish" for the
purpose of receiving and utilizing satellite relayed television signals for his
own use. (Ord. 3097, 2-2-1999)
5-1A-4: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Handheld Devices: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle on any street or highway within the city of Vinita while using a
handheld electronic communication device to manually compose, send or read an
electronic text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this
section shall, upon conviction be punished by a fine as stated in section
1-9-12 of this code.
   C.   Emergency Use: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   D.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
    CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail. (Ord. 3613, 12-1-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Gambling Related Offenses
5-1B-2: Vagrancy
5-1B-3: Begging
5-1B-4: Loitering On Streets Or Near Schools
5-1B-5: Prostitution And Related Offenses
5-1B-6: Indecent Conduct; Peeping Into Windows
5-1B-7: Offenses Involving Intoxicating Liquor
5-1B-8: Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic
Beverages
5-1B-1: GAMBLING RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Betting On Or Playing Games: It is unlawful for any person to bet or
play at any game whatsoever, for money, property, checks, credits or other
representatives of value with cards, dice, or another device which may be
adapted to or used in playing any game of chance or in which chance is a
material element. (1986 Code § 14-4; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Slot Machines: It is unlawful for any person to set up, operate or
conduct, or permit to be set up, operated or conducted in or about his place of
business, whether as an owner, employee or agent, any slot machine for the
purpose of having or allowing the same to be played by others for money,
property, check, credit or any representative of value. (1986 Code § 14-5; amd.
2005 Code)
   C.   Dice Or Other Games: It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor,
manager or person in charge in any hotel lobby, store or place where articles
are kept for sale to suffer, allow or permit any person to throw or shake or
play dice, or any other game, scheme or device of chance, at or in such hotel
lobby, store or place. (1986 Code § 14-6; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Loitering: It is unlawful for any person to loiter about in the
immediate vicinity where persons are gambling, whether by playing games,
operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (1986 Code § 14-7)
5-1B-2: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Vagrants Defined: The following persons are vagrants within the meaning
of this article:
      1.   An idle person who lives without any means, or who has no visible
means of support and makes no exertion to obtain a livelihood by honest
employment.
      2.   Any person who strolls or loiters idly about the streets of the
city, having no local habitation and no honest business or employment.
      3.   Any person who strolls about to tell fortunes or to exhibit tricks
not licensed in accordance with law or ordinance.
      4.   Any common prostitute, any manager or controller of a house of
prostitution or ill fame, or anyone employed therein as a barkeeper, caller of
figures for dances, or habitual frequenter thereof.
      5.   Any professional gambler or gambler commonly known as a tinhorn
gambler, card player, or card shark.
      6.   Any person who goes about to get alms, who is not afflicted or
disabled by a physical malady or misfortune.
      7.   Any habitual drunkard.
      8.   Any person who abandons or neglects or refuses to support his
family. (1986 Code § 14-10)
   B.   Vagrancy Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to be a vagrant in
the city, and any person who is a vagrant in the city shall be punished as
provided by the ordinances of the city. (1986 Code § 14-11)
5-1B-3: BEGGING:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms from any person, organization, or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1986 Code § 14-12)
5-1B-4: LOITERING ON STREETS OR NEAR SCHOOLS:
   A.   Loitering; Sleeping On Streets: It is unlawful for any person, without
lawful reason, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
sunrise, to loiter or wander aimlessly within the city on the streets, in other
public places, or on property of another; or during such time to sleep on any
street, in any other public place, or on any property of another without the
expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
(1986 Code § 14-14)
   B.   Interfering With School Activities: It is unlawful for a person not to
leave or to return within thirty (30) days thereafter, without written
permission, after being asked to leave by the chief administrative officer of
the school or his designated representative after such person interferes,
commits an act which interferes or enters for the purpose of interfering with
the peaceful conduct of activities at a public or private school. (1986 Code §
14-14; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1B-5: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Definition: "Illicit sexual intercourse" is sexual intercourse with any
person other than one's lawful husband or wife. (1986 Code § 14-16)
   B.   Prostitution:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to offer, submit, or give himself or
herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual intercourse, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act, for money or any other thing of value. (1986
Code § 14-15; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
intercourse or any other immoral act, or knowingly to consort with a prostitute
or other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose or to occupy any room for an immoral purpose, whether in a public or
private place in the city, or to loiter about a house or place of prostitution
or a house or place devoted to lewd or immoral acts. (1986 Code § 14-17)
   C.   House Of Prostitution:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof, to
keep or assist in keeping a house of prostitution or a house or place in the
city where persons meet or assemble for illicit sexual intercourse or for any
other lewd or immoral purpose; or knowingly to permit a prostitute or other
person of an immoral vocation to become or remain a guest in a hotel or rooming
house. (1986 Code § 14-18)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to be an inmate or resident of a house
of prostitution or of a house or place devoted to lewd or immoral acts. (1986
Code § 14-19; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1B-6: INDECENT CONDUCT; PEEPING INTO WINDOWS:
   A.   Indecent Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to conduct himself or
herself in a lewd or indecent manner or in a manner offensive to the good
morals of the city, or to perform any act which is detrimental to the good
morals of the city, in any public or private place within the city.
   B.   Peeping Into Windows: It is unlawful for any person to hide or loiter
in the vicinity of any private dwelling house, apartment, or building with the
intent to watch, or gaze or look at, occupants therein in a clandestine manner;
or, while so hiding or loitering, to watch, or gaze or look at, occupants
therein in a clandestine manner. (1986 Code § 14-20)
5-1B-7: OFFENSES INVOLVING INTOXICATING LIQUOR 1 :
   A.   Unlawful Manufacture Or Sale:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, barter, sell, give
away, or otherwise furnish to another, any intoxicating liquor or beverage of
any kind except as permitted by law. (1986 Code § 14-21)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof, to
keep, maintain, or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining, a place where
intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, given away or otherwise
furnished in violation of law or the ordinances of the city. (1986 Code § 14-
24)
   B.   Possession, Transporting: It is unlawful for any person to have in his
possession or under his control any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any
kind, except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from
place to place within the city any such intoxicating liquor or beverage except
as permitted by law. (1986 Code § 14-22)
   C.   Loitering: It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where
intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind is bartered, sold, given away, or
otherwise furnished contrary to law. (1986 Code § 14-23)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 3 of this code for alcoholic beverage regulations.
5-1B-8: PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point beer" as
defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to: 1) salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s); 2) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or other
emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at, or leaving
the scene of a gathering; 3) the cost of repairing any city equipment or
property damaged, and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding
to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering; and 4) any other
allowable costs related to the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Consumption Of Alcohol By Minor In Public Place, Place Open To Public,
Or Place Not Open To Public:
Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverage; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting, Or Allowing A Party, Gathering, Or Event Where
Minors Consuming Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited:
      1.   a. It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1a of this
section.
      2.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      3.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      4.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      5.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished with a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory penalties, as set forth in
section
1-9-14 of this code.
   E.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city of Vinita criminally, civilly, and/or administratively
as provided by this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response
costs associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or
procedures provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit
the authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall it
limit the city's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising
out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this section.
   F.   Local Authority: This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law. (Ord. 3406, 8-19-2008)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Weapons; Firearms
5-1C-2: Assemblages; Prohibited Acts
5-1C-3: Disturbing The Peace; Disorderly Conduct
5-1C-4: Loud Noise Or Music
5-1C-5: Displaying Insulting Signs
5-1C-1: WEAPONS; FIREARMS 1 :
   A.   Carrying Certain Weapons Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
carry upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk, dagger,
metal knuckle, switchblade knife, or other deadly weapon or instrument, whether
concealed or not, except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted
by law. (1986 Code § 14-26)
   B.   Discharging Firearms, Air Rifles And BB Guns: It is unlawful for any
person to discharge a firearm in the city except when doing so in the line of
duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or another person, or of
property, or when otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. It is unlawful to
discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city. (1986 Code § 14-27)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-2 of this title.
5-1C-2: ASSEMBLAGES; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Unlawful Assembly: It is unlawful for three (3) or more persons to
assemble together, or, being assembled together, to act in concert to do any
unlawful act against the peace, or to the terror of others, or to make any
movement thereto or any preparation therefor, or otherwise to assemble together
unlawfully or riotously. (1986 Code § 14-28)
   B.   Disturbing Religious Worship: It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for religious worship by making
noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper, or loud
language; or in any other manner, either within the place of worship or within
hearing distance thereof. (1986 Code § 14-30)
   C.   Disturbing Public Assembly: It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful public gathering or assembly by making noise; by rude, indecent, or
improper behavior; by profane, improper, or loud language; or in any other
manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
(1986 Code § 14-31)
5-1C-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously disturb the peace of
another or others by violent, obstreperous, or improper conduct or carriage; by
loud or unusual noise; or by unseemly, obscene, offensive, or abusive language;
or to insult another or others by such conduct or language; or to conduct
himself in a disorderly manner. (1986 Code § 14-29; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1C-4: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such
manner as to emit loud music, noise, or words. However, this shall not prohibit
religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other religious
music. (1986 Code § 14-32)
5-1C-5: DISPLAYING INSULTING SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any person to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or
device which in its common acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the
citizens of the city, and which is calculated, or of which the natural
consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (1986 Code § 14-
33)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Assault And Battery
5-1D-2: Intimidating Laborers Or Employers
5-1D-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city, and any person committing an assault or an assault and
battery within the city is guilty of an offense. (1986 Code § 14-35)
5-1D-2: INTIMIDATING LABORERS OR EMPLOYERS:
   A.   Laborers: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, by force,
threats or intimidation, to prevent, or endeavor to prevent, any hired foreman,
journeyman, apprentice, workman, laborer, servant or other person employed by
another from continuing or performing his work, or from accepting any new work
or employment, or to induce such hired person to relinquish his work or
employment, or to return any work he has in hand before it is finished. (1986
Code § 14-36)
   B.   Employers: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, by the use
of force, threats or intimidation, to prevent, or endeavor to prevent, another
from employing any person or compel another person to employ any person, or to
force or induce another to alter his mode of carrying on his business, or to
limit or increase the number of his hired foremen, journeymen, apprentices,
workmen, laborers, servants or other persons employed by him, or their rate of
wages or time of service. (1986 Code § 14-37)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Petty Larceny
5-1E-2: Meddling With Vehicles
5-1E-3: Injuring Buildings Or Structures
5-1E-4: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
5-1E-5: Trespassing
5-1E-1: PETTY LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: "Petty larceny" is the taking of personal property of value
of not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and
with intent to deprive another thereof, when the property is not taken from the
person of another. (1986 Code § 14-38)
   B.   Violation: Petty larceny is unlawful. (1986 Code § 14-38; amd. 2005
Code)
5-1E-2: MEDDLING WITH VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to crank, start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, take, or drive away any automobile or other vehicle
belonging to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof. (1986 Code § 14-39; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1E-3: INJURING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other private property,
real or personal, belonging to another; or to use any such property wrongfully
to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use; or to
interfere wrongfully with the use of such property by its owner or any other
person entitled to its use. (1986 Code § 14-40)
5-1E-4: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write, or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other property
of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1986
Code § 14-41)
5-1E-5: TRESPASSING:
Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
city without license or authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without such
license or authority, and every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley, or avenue of the city, any hut, hovel, shanty
or other structure whatever, is guilty of an offense. (1986 Code § 14-42)
ARTICLE F. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-1F-1: Refusing Or Failing To Assist Officer
5-1F-2: Resisting Officer
5-1F-3: Offenses Related To Prisoners
5-1F-4: Personating An Officer Or Employee
5-1F-5: False Alarms Or Representation
5-1F-6: Removal Of Barricades
5-1F-1: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Call For Assistance: An officer of the city making or
about to make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other
process, in accordance with the ordinances of the city or with state or federal
law, or suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly,
may call upon a person or persons to assist him in making such arrest,
executing such process, or suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   B.   Refusal To Assist: It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (1986 Code §
14-44)
5-1F-2: RESISTING OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose, or
obstruct the chief of police, any other police officer, the municipal judge, or
other officer or employee of the city in the discharge of his official duties;
or, by threats or otherwise, to intimidate or to attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or to assault or
beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent language
toward or about, any such officer or employee while such officer or employee is
in the discharge of his official duties. (1986 Code § 14-45)
5-1F-3: OFFENSES RELATED TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Rescuing; Assisting Escape; Giving Weapons, Intoxicants: It is unlawful
for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at liberty, rescue, or attempt
to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from any officer or employee of the
city having legal custody of the same or from the city jail or other place of
confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in any manner to escape
from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any weapon or object
which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist him in escape, or to
give such prisoner any alcoholic beverage or narcotics. (1986 Code § 14-46)
   B.   Escape Of Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person confined in the city
jail or other place of confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or
other public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held
in legal custody by authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from
any such jail, prison, or custody. (1986 Code § 14-47)
   C.   Concealing Prisoner: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and
knowingly conceal any prisoner who, having been confined in the city jail or
other place of confinement by the city, upon a charge or conviction of any city
ordinance or code provision, has escaped therefrom. (1986 Code § 14-48)
5-1F-4: PERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to personate any officer or employee of the city,
falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or exercise
or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of an officer or
employee of the city without being fully authorized to do so, and in such
assumed character does any act whereby another person is injured, defrauded,
vexed or annoyed. (1986 Code § 14-49)
5-1F-5: FALSE ALARMS OR REPRESENTATION:
   A.   False Fire Alarm: It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire
alarm, or in any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or
any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported
fire, or knowingly to cause the fire department or its officers or employees to
make a useless run. (1986 Code § 14-50)
   B.   False Representation To Officer: It is unlawful for any person or any
agent or employee thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to
any officer, employee or agency of the city government in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency; or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the city. (1986
Code § 14-51)
5-1F-6: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area. (1986 Code § 14-52)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew
5-2-2: Selling Or Furnishing Cartridges Or Weapons
5-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful
for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to travel upon or
congregate upon the streets and ways of the city from and after the hour of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on the nights of
Sunday through Thursday, and from and after the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on the nights of Friday and Saturday.
   B.   Authority To Extend Or Suspend Hours: The mayor (or in his absence the
president of the city council) is hereby authorized to extend or suspend the
curfew for special occasions for good cause shown, in which event, the person
making application therefor shall notify the police department in writing of
such extension of the curfew.
   C.   Exceptions: Persons within the following categories shall be excused
from the provisions hereof:
      1.   The person is accompanied by his or her parent or other adult member
of his or her family or guardian; or
      2.   The person is returning to his or her home from school, church,
work, or civic meeting, without taking unnecessary time or delay in doing so.
   D.   Notice Of Youth Detention To Parent: In the event of the apprehension
of any youth for any offense after the curfew hours, the parents or guardian of
such youth shall be immediately given notice of such detention by the police
department. (1986 Code § 14-13)
5-2-2: SELLING OR FURNISHING CARTRIDGES OR WEAPONS:
   A.   Cartridges: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, give
or furnish to any minor any loaded cartridges, except as authorized by law.
(1986 Code § 14-54)
   B.   Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, give or
furnish to any minor any pistol, revolver, dirk, bowie knife, metal knucks or
other dangerous or deadly weapons. (1986 Code § 14-55)
ARTICLE A. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Sale To Minors Prohibited
5-2A-3: Demand Proof Of Age
5-2A-4: Violations; Liability
5-2A-5: Violation By Minor
5-2A-6: Distributing Samples To Minors
5-2A-7: Cigarette Sales In Original, Sealed Package
5-2A-8: No Public Access
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual of
twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: A tobacco product or vapor product distributed to members of the
public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco or nicotine and is
intended for human consumption.
   VAPOR PRODUCT: Any noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. “Vapor products” shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device. “Vapor products”
do not include any products regulated by the United States Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Ord. 3050,
12-3-1996; amd. Ord. 3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-2: SALE TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in any manner any
tobacco product or vapor product to another person who is under twenty-one (21)
years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product or vapor product
on behalf of any such person. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful
for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to handle such products when
required in the performance of the employee's job. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996; Ord.
3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-3: DEMAND PROOF OF AGE:
It shall be unlawful for a person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products or vapor products not to demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be under twenty-one (21)
years of age. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996; Ord. 3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-4: VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY:
   A.   Fines Imposed For Violations: Any person who violates section
5-2A-2 or
5-2A-3 of this article shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first offense within a one (1) year period, seventy five dollars ($75.00)
for the second offense within a one (1) year period, and one hundred dollars
($100.00)for a third offense or subsequent offense within a one (1) year
period. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
subsection. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Violation By Employee: If the sale is made by an employee of the owner
of a store in which tobacco products or vapor products are sold at retail, the
employee shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine. (1986
Code § 3050, 12-3-1996)
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine; Suspend Driver's License: Upon failure of the
employee to pay the fine to the city within ninety (90) days of the day of
assessment of such fine, the city shall notify the Oklahoma department of
public safety and said department shall suspend or not issue a driver's license
to said employee until proof of payment has been furnished to said department
of public safety. (1986 Code § 3050, 12-3-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Multiple Locations: For the purposes of determining the liability of a
person controlling franchises or business operations in multiple locations, for
any violation of section 5-2A-2 or 5-2A-3 of this article, each individual
franchise or business location shall be deemed a separate entity. (Ord. 3050,
12-3-1996; amd. Ord. 3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-5: VIOLATION BY MINOR:
   A.   Accepting Tobacco Products Or Vapor Products; False Identification: It
is unlawful for any person in the city who is under twenty-one (21) years of
age to purchase, accept receipt of, or have in their possession a tobacco
product or vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any purported
proof of age which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, for
the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product or vapor product.
Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for employees to handle such
tobacco product or vapor products when required in the performance of the
employee’s job. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996)
   B.   Fines Imposed For Violation: Any person who violates this section shall
be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first offense within a one
(1) year period, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a second offense within a
one (1) year period, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a third offense or
subsequent offense within a one (1) year period. Upon failure of the individual
to pay such fine within ninety (90) days of the day of such fine, the city
shall notify the Oklahoma department of public safety and said department shall
suspend or not issue a driver's license to said individual until proof of
payment has been furnished to said department of public safety. (Ord. 3050, 12-
3-1996; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-6: DISTRIBUTING SAMPLES TO MINORS:
   A.   Distributing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful in the city for any
person to distribute tobacco product or vapor products samples to any person
under twenty- one (21) years of age.
   B.   Distributing Near Schools, Playgrounds: Notwithstanding subsection A,
no person shall distribute tobacco product or vapor product samples in the city
in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet
(300') of any playground, school, or other facility where the facility is being
used primarily by persons under eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-
1996)
   C.   Fines Imposed For Violation: Any person who violates subsection A or B
of this section shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
first offense within a one (1) year period, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for
the second offense within a one (1) year period, and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a third offense or subsequent offense within the one (1) year
period.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fine; Driver's License Suspension: Upon failure of the
individual to pay the fine provided for in subsection C of this section within
ninety (90) days of the day of such fine, the city shall notify the Oklahoma
department of public safety and said department shall suspend or not issue a
driver's license to said individual until proof of payment has been furnished
to said department of public safety. (Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996; amd. 2005 Code;
Ord. 3855, 11-5-2024)
5-2A-7: CIGARETTE SALES IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE:
It is unlawful for any person in the city to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer. Any
person who violates this section is guilty of an offense, and the city shall
assess such person a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 3050, 12-3-1996)
5-2A-8: NO PUBLIC ACCESS:
No public access to tobacco products or vapor products is permitted except for
stores that do not admit persons under twenty-one (21) years of age. (Ord.
3855, 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Dog License Required; Fee; Vaccination
5-3-3: Animal Shelters, Kennels And Catteries
5-3-4: Restrictions
5-3-5: Keeping Of Wild, Exotic Or Dangerous Animals
5-3-6: Certain Livestock Not To Be Kept Within City, Exception
5-3-7: Animal Enclosures
5-3-8: Proper Care Of Animals
5-3-9: Service Dogs
5-3-10: Adoptions; Spaying And Neutering Requirements
5-3-11: Pasturing Public Areas
5-3-12: Indecent Exhibition Of Animals
5-3-13: Animals Disturbing The Peace
5-3-14: Rabid Animals, Disposition; Rabies Outbreak
5-3-15: Animal Dying After Biting Person; Disposition
5-3-16: Harboring Dangerous, Vicious, Menacing, Or Nondomestic Animals
5-3-17: Defense Against Attacking Dog
5-3-18: Certain Dogs Declared Nuisance
5-3-19: Animal Control Officer; Impoundment Of Animals; Redemption; Sale;
Euthanasia
5-3-20: Reserved
5-3-21: Animals Upon Or Near Sidewalks
5-3-22: Wild Fowl Sanctuary
5-3-23: Penalty
5-3-24: Chickens And Quail
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the meanings
prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, swine, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
ANIMAL SHELTER: A nonprofit establishment providing a temporary home for dogs,
cats and any other animal allowed in the city limits and not otherwise excluded
by ordinance. Animal shelters are entities which provide one or more of the
following: a) provide care and treatment to animals needing protection, b)
attempt to find homes for homeless animals and to reunite lost pets with their
families, and c) provide humane euthanasia for homeless or unadoptable animals.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner of the animal, and not under the control
of the owner, a member of his immediate family twelve (12) years of age or
older, or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
CATTERY: Any premises or place where four (4) or more cats are kept over six
(6) months of age. Veterinary clinics shall not fall within this definition.
KENNEL: Any premises or place where four (4) or more dogs are kept over six (6)
months of age. Veterinary clinics shall not fall within this definition.
MENACING BEHAVIOR: An animal, while not under direct control, causes a
reasonable person to believe that an unprovoked attack on a person or on a
domestic animal is imminent.
NONDOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal that is not included within the definition of
"animal" listed in this section. Nondomestic animals shall include, but not be
limited to, coyotes, wolves, tigers, lions, bears, elk, moose and deer.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more, is
deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG AND DANGEROUS DOG: Are given the definition as set
forth in 4 Oklahoma Statutes section 44, as it may be amended or replaced from
time to time.
VICIOUS ANIMAL 1 : An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any
person, without undue provocation, or which attacks or assaults any person, or
which has mauled or killed a dog, cat or other domestic animal; provided that
such animal shall not be declared to be vicious or dangerous if the threat,
injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
animal, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or has, in the
past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
animal or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. (1986 Code § 3-1;
amd. Ord. 3252, 10-19-2004; Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009; Ord. 3516, 12-20-2011; Ord.
3533, 9-4-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 4 OS § 46(B).
5-3-2: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; VACCINATION:
   A.   License Required; Vaccination: It is unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor any dog over six (6) months old within the city without having first
obtained a license therefor. The license shall be issued by the city clerk upon
presentation of a certificate by a licensed veterinarian stating that the dog
has been vaccinated against rabies.
   B.   License Fee; Term: The fee for the license shall be ten dollars
($10.00) and the license shall be valid for the remainder of the calendar year
for which it is purchased. In the event the fees herein provided for are not
paid on or before January 31 of each year, the fee shall double for each dog
registered. This penalty provision shall not apply to dogs registered within
sixty (60) days from the date such dog is brought into the city, or within
sixty (60) days from the date such dog becomes six (6) months of age. (Ord.
3449, 11-3-2009)
   C.   License Tag Attached To Collar: The city clerk shall issue to the
licensee a metal tag. The licensee shall be required to provide each dog with a
collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar
and tag are continually worn. (Ord. 3465, 4-20-2010)
   D.   Duplicate Tag; Fee: In case a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
shall be issued by the city clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing the
payment of the license fee and upon payment of a five dollar ($5.00) fee for
such duplicate.
   E.   Tags Nontransferable: Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog
to another.
   F.   Contents Of Application For License: At the time application is made
for the license and upon forms provided for such purpose, the applicant shall
show his name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned
or kept by him.
   G.   Exceptions To Licensing Provisions: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
city for less than five (5) days. (Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009)
5-3-3: ANIMAL SHELTERS, KENNELS AND CATTERIES:
   A.   Animal Shelters; Licensing For Private Shelters:
      1.   The city has previously established a municipal animal shelter
(a.k.a., pound). Such shelter, and any future shelters established by the city,
shall be under the control of the animal control supervisor who shall be the
chief of police, or his designee. The animal control supervisor shall provide
proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane
manner. The animal control supervisor shall also ensure compliance of the
shelter facility with all applicable local, county, state and federal laws,
rules and/or regulations.
      2.   The city may also contract for the use of an animal shelter
maintained by another governmental entity, or private party, approved by the
city council.
      3.   All private animal shelters shall apply for a license from the city,
and pay a fee of five dollars ($5.00) therefor. Thereafter, all private animal
shelters shall apply for and pay an annual renewal fee of five dollars ($5.00).
Government owned animal shelters and veterinarian clinics are exempt from the
licensing requirement.
   B.   Kennels And Catteries:
      1.   Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a kennel or
cattery without first procuring a license from the city to operate the kennel
or cattery. Each day an unlicensed kennel or cattery is in operation is
considered to be a separate violation. All veterinary hospitals shall be exempt
from the payment of kennel or cattery license fees.
      2.   Permit Fees; Annual Renewal: Each applicant for a kennel or a
cattery shall pay an application fee of five dollars ($5.00), and an initial
licensing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Prior to obtaining the license,
a kennel owner shall have each dog licensed, tagged, and vaccinated. Prior to
obtaining a license, each cattery must have each cat vaccinated. If the
application is approved, the clerk shall issue a license renewable January 1 of
each year upon payment of a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Inspection Required: Prior to the issuance of a permit, the kennel
or cattery site shall be inspected to ensure compliance with the proper care
and sanitary requirements contained herein, and to ensure that such facilities
are designed to prohibit animals from being at large within the city.
      4.   Vaccination Required: All dogs and cats kept in kennels or
catteries, whether owned or boarded, that are four (4) months of age or older
shall be vaccinated.
      5.   Required Records: A written record shall be kept by the kennel or
cattery operator which shall include the following information:
         a.   A record of proof of vaccination for every animal kept over four
(4) months of age showing the date each dog or cat was vaccinated, the type and
duration of the vaccine administered to the dog or cat, along with the name and
phone number of the veterinarian administering the vaccine or the name and
phone number of the veterinarian who directly supervised the administration of
the vaccine;
         b.   A description of every dog or cat kept, at a minimum to include
the animal's breed, age, sex and color; and
         c.   Whether the dog or cat is boarded or owned by the kennel.
Records for kennels and catteries shall be available for inspection by any
officer of the city upon demand during normal business hours. Failure to keep
required records is unlawful, and can be cause for the revocation of the kennel
or cattery license.
      6.   Revocation Of License: The city may revoke a kennel or cattery
license for allowing animals to run at large, violation of ordinances
pertaining to the proper care of animals, violation of ordinances pertaining to
the sanitation of animals, violation of kennel and cattery regulations or when
the operation of the kennel or cattery amounts to a public nuisance.
   C.   Animal Shelter, Kennel And Cattery Regulations: All animal shelters,
kennels and catteries shall adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   Animal housing areas must be physically separated from areas in
which food and/or drink for human consumption is prepared, served or stored.
      2.   Interior building surfaces shall be constructed and maintained so
that they are impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned.
      3.   Adequate potable water, and food, shall be provided. Backflow
preventers shall be installed on any threaded faucets.
      4.   A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess
water from animal housing facilities. If drains are used, they shall be
properly constructed and kept in good repair. If closed drainage systems are
used, wastewater shall be disposed of by connection to a sanitary sewer or any
approved sewage disposal system.
      5.   All buildings and facilities must comply with building codes and
regulations.
      6.   All enclosures shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animals from injury, to contain them, and to prevent
vermin from entering. They shall be constructed and maintained to enable the
animals to remain dry and clean and to provide convenient access to clean food
and water.
      7.   The floors of the enclosures shall be constructed to prevent injury
to animals' feet and legs. Enclosures for dogs and cats may have wire flooring
provided, however, that: a) the wire is of adequate gauge to prevent sagging
under the weight of the animals and b) the wire mesh is small enough to prevent
their feet from falling through the mesh.
      8.   Enclosures must be constructed to provide sufficient space to allow
each animal to exercise normal postural movements.
      9.   At least one run must be available in every licensed kennel. The run
must be of sufficient size to allow an animal to break into a run.
      10.   Animal waste shall be removed from enclosures daily and/or as often
as may be necessary to prevent contamination of the animals and to reduce
disease, hazards and odors.
      11.   Cages shall be cleaned as often as may be necessary to maintain
sanitary conditions by washing all surfaces with a detergent solution followed
by a safe and effective sanitizer. Animals must be removed from the enclosures
during the cleaning process and precautions taken to avoid cross contamination.
      12.   Water and food containers and all other utensils shall be cleaned
and sanitized using generally acceptable methods such as the use of heat or
chemical sanitizing solution. These containers shall be cleaned and sanitized
as often as necessary to maintain sanitary conditions.
      13.   Animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, debris and other
organic wastes must be disposed of in order that vermin infestation, odors,
disease hazards and nuisances are minimized.
      14.   The premises shall be kept clean, in good repair, and free of
trash.
      15.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites and
avian and mammalian pests shall be maintained.
      16.   Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored off the floor in
waterproof closed containers and adequately protected against infestation or
contamination by vermin.
      17.   Animals that die at the facility shall be stored and disposed of in
a manner that will not cause a disease hazard or nuisance.
      18.   All animals shall be fed at least once a day and shall be provided
potable water at all times except when under special veterinary care. The food
and water shall be free from contamination, palatable, and of sufficient
quality and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the animal. Refrigeration shall be provided for
perishable food.
      19.   Food and water containers shall be accessible to the animal and
located to minimize contamination by excreta. These containers shall be cleaned
daily. Self-feeders and self-waterers may be used if cleaned regularly.
      20.   Females in season (estrus) shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with males, except for breeding purposes.
      21.   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition or menacing behavior
shall be housed individually in an enclosure which is inaccessible to other
animals or children.
      22.   Dogs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with cats,
nor shall dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other
species of animals.
      23.   Boarded animals shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure
with those from another household unless the owners have been informed of and
have consented to that arrangement.
      24.   Puppies or kittens shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams, except when
permanently maintained in breeding colonies.
      25.   Animals under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease
shall be physically separated from other susceptible animals to minimize
dissemination of disease. Such quarantine area should have a separate
ventilation system.
      26.   Animals shall be observed daily for signs of disease. An animal
suspected of having an infectious disease shall be physically separated from
other animals until the condition is determined to be noninfectious.
      27.   Sick or injured animals shall be provided with veterinary care.
      28.   Animals with obvious signs of disease, or injury, or of a vicious
nature shall not be sold or transferred.
      29.   In breeding kennels, an animal control or police officer may
require laboratory testing of a suitable number of animals or specimens to
determine if such animals are disease free. The costs of the laboratory tests
shall be the responsibility of the licensee. In the event disease is found, the
facility may be quarantined and a prohibition against the sale or transfer of
animals enacted. The quarantine will be lifted only through written release by
the police department if it is determined that a health risk no longer exists;
determinations of disease and quarantine may be appealed by the kennel to the
municipal court.
      30.   For animal shelters, said facilities must have adequate facilities
for the number of animals being housed.
      31.   Kennels shall not house more than twelve (12) dogs, and catteries
shall not house over twelve (12) cats; provided, however, dogs and cats under
six (6) months of age shall not be considered in the total number in
determining compliance with this section.
Places that currently exist, for which the adoption of this section creates the
need for a permit, or compliance, shall have until September 30, 2012, to gain
compliance and obtain a permit.
   D.   Commercial Zoning Required: All animal shelters, kennels and catteries
operated within the city limits must be located upon land with the appropriate
commercial zoning. Animal shelters and catteries shall be deemed "kennels" for
zoning purposes. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-4: RESTRICTIONS:
In addition to all other matters prohibited by this chapter, it is unlawful for
any person:
   A.   To permit any dog or cat to be in any public place or building where
food is sold, served, or dispensed; provided, however, this restriction shall
not apply to service dogs as defined in section
5-3-9 of this chapter.
   B.   To permit any dog or cat, possessed, kept or harbored by him, to run at
large on the streets, alleys, or public places, or on private premises not
under his control, within the city.
   C.   To permit any female dog or cat in season to run at large; and the
animal control officer shall impound any such female dog or cat upon finding
same.
   D.   To open any enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by
ordinance so as to turn such animal at large, or in any manner to turn such an
animal at large.
   E.   To break or attempt to break open an animal shelter or other place of
impoundment, or take or let out any animal therefrom, or to take or attempt to
take from any officer or employee of the city any animal taken into custody as
provided by this chapter.
   F.   To own, keep, or harbor any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
in violation of this chapter.
   G.   To harbor, keep, or have possession of any vicious animal, or an animal
exhibiting menacing behavior.
   H.   To abandon or desert any animal, or permit any animal to become a
stray. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-5: KEEPING OF WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, a "wild, exotic or dangerous animal"
means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a domestic animal
and which can normally be found in the wild state, with or without mean or
vicious propensities, including, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards,
panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants,
rhinoceroses, and all forms of poisonous or large snakes, including those
considered dangerous such as boas and pythons, lynxes, raccoons, skunks,
monkeys, and other like animals.
   B.   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild, exotic or dangerous animal
in the city limits as a pet or for display or for exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in this section.
   C.   This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks or
zoos, performing animal exhibitions or circuses licensed by the city.
   D.   If the owner of a wild, exotic or dangerous animal can establish to the
police department's satisfaction that an animal ordinarily considered as wild,
dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other animals and that the
animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the city clerk may issue a
permit to the owner to keep such animal in the city limits. The fee for such
permit will be ten dollars ($10.00) and shall be renewed annually by January 1.
In the event the fees herein provided for are not paid on or before January 31
of each year, the fee shall double for each animal registered. For any animal
so permitted as provided in this subsection, the owner agrees to accept full
responsibility for the actions and behavior of such animal. The establishment
of whether such animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the animal by submitting written evidence to the
police department. No permit shall be granted by the city clerk unless written
approval to the evidence submitted by the owner is submitted to the city clerk
in advance. (Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009)
5-3-6: CERTAIN LIVESTOCK NOT TO BE KEPT WITHIN CITY, EXCEPTION:
   A.   Keeping Of Livestock Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to keep
mules, donkeys, swine, cows, sheep, goats, , turkey, geese, ducks or any
similar animal or fowl of any kind, except horses as set forth below (and
chickens/quail as set forth in Section 5-3-24 of this Title), within the limits
of the city.
   B.   Exception: The keeping of livestock connected with school sponsored
activities is permitted when such animals are kept in the agriculture barn. The
names and phone numbers of the owners of the livestock will be provided to the
animal control officer by the sponsor.
   C.   Horse Enclosures: It is unlawful for any person to keep a horse within
the limits of the city unless the horse is kept within an enclosure or fence,
and the enclosure or fenced area has at least five thousand (5,000) square feet
for each animal kept in the enclosure or fenced area, and the enclosure or
fenced area is located so that no part shall be any closer than one hundred
feet (100') to the dwelling quarters of any person other than the owner or
custodian of such animals.
   D.   Violation: Any person keeping livestock within the city limits in
violation of this section shall be first entitled to one 3-day notice to remove
the animal from the city limits. Any violation of this section thereafter shall
be deemed an offense. Each and every violation or omission of required act and
day of continued violation after one 3-day notice shall be deemed a separate
offense. A person is not entitled to any notice for additional offenses after
the first notice shall have been given.
(Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009; amd. Ord. 3844, 7-16-2024)
5-3-7: ANIMAL ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Construction; Location: Enclosures or fenced areas for animals named in
section
5-3-6 of this chapter shall be substantially erected with good and proper
materials enclosing an area of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet
per horse. Such enclosures or fenced areas shall be situated on an alley or
rear property line of the lot, and no part of the enclosure or fenced area
shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the dwelling quarters of any person
other than the owner or custodian of such animals.
   B.   Control Flies, Insects: Each pen or enclosure shall be sprayed with a
suitable residual spray as often as necessary to control flies and other
insects. (Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009)
5-3-8: PROPER CARE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Proper Care Required: The proper care and treatment of all animals
possessed, kept or harbored within the city is required. It is unlawful for any
person to maltreat, neglect or improperly confine any animal.
   B.   Feeding And Care: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
properly care and feed any animal owned, possessed, harbored or kept within the
corporate limits of the city, and to this end the following regulations shall
apply:
      1.   Food shall be free from contamination and of sufficient quantity and
nutritive value to maintain animals in good health. Animals shall be fed at
least once a day except as dictated by hibernation, veterinary treatment,
normal fasts or other professionally accepted practices. All food receptacles
shall be kept clean and sanitary.
      2.   Potable water shall be provided as often as necessary for the health
and comfort of each animal. Frequency of watering shall consider age, species,
condition, size and type of animal. Animals shall be watered as required by
applicable local, state and federal laws. All water receptacles shall be kept
clean and sanitary.
   C.   Shelters And Enclosures: It shall be unlawful to provide inadequate
shelter or enclosures for any animal owned, possessed, kept or harbored within
the city. The following regulations will apply:
      1.   Enclosures for animals shall be constructed and maintained to
provide sufficient space for each animal, and shall be sufficient for each
animal to make normal postural and social adjustments and to provide each
animal with adequate freedom of movement to maintain good physical condition.
      2.   Indoor facilities for the keeping of animals shall be sufficiently
heated, cooled and ventilated as to protect the animals from extremes of
temperature and to provide for their health and to prevent their discomfort.
Lighting of primary enclosures shall be designed to protect the animals from
excessive illumination. Such lighting shall be uniformly distributed and of
sufficient intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
      3.   Natural or artificial outdoor shelters appropriate to the local
climatic conditions for the particular species of animal shall be provided for
all animals kept outdoors. A suitable method of drainage shall be provided to
rapidly eliminate excess water.
      4.   A shelter for a dog or cat shall consist of a moistureproof and
windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the animal and to allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material, and shall be
provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding material to provide
insulation and protection against cold and dampness and to promote retention of
body heat.
      5.   A shelter for livestock shall be at least a two (2) sided roofed
structure made of durable material.
      6.   If a dog is left unattended out of doors, it must be contained in a
yard with a fence or wall adequate to prevent the dog from leaving the yard,
and adequate to prevent another dog or a child from entering that yard.
   D.   Animals Without Proper Care: Whenever an officer of the city finds that
any animal is without proper care, he may impound the animal for protective
care. In the event of sickness or injury of the animal, and upon the advice of
a licensed veterinarian, the officer may take appropriate action to prevent
undue pain and suffering. This shall include the option of immediate humane
destruction of the animal. Persons from whom animals have been impounded for
the purposes of protective care shall not be eligible for redemption of the
animals.
   E.   Cruelty To Animals Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful to treat any animal in a cruel
manner, with the following being strictly prohibited:
         a.   Poisoning Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
intentionally or neglectfully, by any means to make accessible to any animal
any harmful or poisonous substance. It is not the intent of this subsection to
prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin.
         b.   Damaging, Hobbling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to hobble livestock or other animals by any means which may cause injury
or damage to the animal.
         c.   Fighting Contests: It shall be unlawful for any person to
promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, carry on or attend any game, exhibition,
contest or fight in which any animal (the term "animals" as defined above,
which includes, without limitation, dogs or fowl) is used for the purpose of
fighting, injuring, killing, maiming, or destroying any other animal.
         d.   Animals In Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave
any animal in any standing or parked vehicle without providing for adequate
ventilation and/or where such vehicle is subject to developing excessive hot or
cold temperatures to the potential detriment of the animal.
         e.   Abandonment: It is unlawful for any person to abandon any animal
in a public or private place.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed
as preventing or restricting law enforcement officers, animal control officers
or any other persons from killing animals when lawfully entitled to do so.
   F.   Sanitation Requirements:
      1.   Cleaning Of Shelters And Enclosures: To minimize disease hazards and
to reduce odors from shelters, enclosures and other places where animals are
kept, it shall be unlawful to fail to remove excess excreta, waste materials,
dirt and trash from the shelters or enclosures of animals. Livestock manure
shall be hauled outside the city in a manner which does not jeopardize the
public health, or if conditions warrant shall be spread evenly upon the ground
and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits. Areas where animals
are kept or allowed to run shall be sprayed or otherwise treated so as to
control flies and other insects.
      2.   Sealed Waste Container Required: Excreta, waste materials, dirt and
other materials subject to odors shall be stored in a sealed container. It
shall be unlawful to allow excreta and waste materials to accumulate on a
property to the point that offensive odors become an annoyance to others.
      3.   Nuisance Odors: It shall be considered a nuisance for odors
associated with animals, animal excreta, and animal waste materials where same
disturb any person or neighborhood. The keeping or maintaining of any place
where such nuisance exists is unlawful.
      4.   Diseased Animals: It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep or
harbor an animal which is inflicted with any dangerous, communicable or
incurable disease, or which is in a painfully crippled condition. All such
animals shall be humanely destroyed or delivered for medical attention. This
section shall not be construed to include veterinary hospitals or animals under
active veterinarian care with due regard for public health and safety. No
owner, possessor, keeper or harborer in control of any animal, who knows the
animal to have or to have been exposed to any contagious or infectious disease
transmittable to humans, shall dispose of the animal to another person without
a full disclosure of this knowledge to that person, or allow the animal to run
at large or come in contact with other animals. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-9: SERVICE DOGS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
    PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON: Any person who has a physical impairment which
severely and permanently restricts mobility of two (2) or more extremities, or
who is so severely disabled as to be unable to move without the aid of a
wheelchair, or who is blind or deaf.
   SERVICE DOG: Any dog individually trained to the physically disabled
person's requirements, or in training for such purpose.
   SIGNAL DOG: A type of service dog and means any dog trained to alert a deaf
person, or person whose hearing is impaired, to intruders or sounds, or which
is in training for such purpose.
   B.   Service Dogs Permitted: Any blind, deaf, or physically disabled person
who is a passenger on any common carrier, airplane, motor vehicle, railroad
train, motorbus, streetcar, boat, or any other public conveyance or mode of
transportation operating within the city or any dog trainer from a recognized
training center when in the act of training guide, signal, or service dogs
shall be entitled to have with him a guide, signal, or service dog specially
trained or being trained for that purpose, without being required to pay an
additional charge therefor.
   C.   Denying Entrance Unlawful: A blind, deaf, or physically disabled person
and his guide, signal, or service dog or a dog trainer from a recognized
training center in the act of training guide, signal, or service dogs shall not
be denied admittance to or refused access to any of the following because of
such dog: any street, highway, sidewalk, walkway, any common carrier, airplane,
motor vehicle, railroad train, motorbus, streetcar, boat, or any other public
conveyance or mode of transportation, hotel, motel, or other place of lodging,
public building maintained by any unit or subdivision of government, building
to which the general public is invited, college dormitory and other educational
facility, restaurant or other place where food is offered for sale to the
public, or any other place of public accommodation, amusement, convenience, or
resort to which the general public or any classification of persons from the
general public is regularly, normally, or customarily invited within the state
of Oklahoma. Such blind, deaf, or physically disabled person or dog trainer
from a recognized training center in the act of training guide, signal, or
service dogs shall not be required to pay any additional charges for his guide,
signal, or service dog, but shall be liable for any damage done to the premises
by said dog. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-10: ADOPTIONS; SPAYING AND NEUTERING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No unclaimed dogs or cats from the city shall be let for permanent
adoption by an animal shelter or any other person or entity who receives such
dogs or cats on behalf of the city, without the spaying or neutering of the
animal prior to the animal being placed or adopted into a permanent home.
   B.   Persons adopting a dog or cat shall pay a fee at the time of adoption
to cover the cost and expense of spaying or neutering the adopted animal. The
amount of such fee shall be an amount as established by the city council, or if
no such fee be established, the fees shall be the actual costs of the spaying
or neutering. Persons or organizations may donate the fees or services for
spaying or neutering, and in such case fees to those adopting animals may be
waived. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-11: PASTURING PUBLIC AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city, or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any other property, without the consent of
the persons owning or controlling such property. (1986 Code § 3-4)
5-3-12: INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to permit animals of the opposite sex to have
sexual intercourse in any place except an enclosed place entirely out of the
public view. (1986 Code § 3-6)
5-3-13: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person or persons. (1986 Code § 3-7)
5-3-14: RABID ANIMALS, DISPOSITION; RABIES OUTBREAK:
   A.   Confinement Required: Any dog or other animal suspected of being rabid
or of having been bitten by a rabid animal may be confined by order of the
health officer or police chief and in the manner and for the time ordered by
him, to determine whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been bitten or
if there is good reason to believe that a person has been otherwise infected by
such animal, the health officer or police chief may have the animal put to
death in a humane manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine
whether it has rabies. (1986 Code § 3-13)
   B.   Animals Biting Persons; Rabies Suspected: In the case of any dog, cat,
or other animal capable of carrying or transmitting rabies which has bitten a
person, it shall be the duty of the animal control officer either to impound
such animal for a period of ten (10) days or make other satisfactory
arrangements for keeping the animal under supervision for a period of at least
ten (10) days. In addition, the owner of any such animal impounded under this
section shall reimburse the impounding authority for all veterinary bills, lab
work or any and all other costs incurred in impounding said animal and costs
incurred for determination of rabies. Except in case of emergency and when it
is impossible to capture the animal, no animal suspected of being rabid shall
be destroyed until destruction is recommended by a licensed veterinarian.
Laboratory confirmation shall be made in all cases when animals suspected of
being rabid have been destroyed. Any animal bitten by a laboratory confirmed
rabid animal shall be either destroyed immediately or confined for a period of
at least six (6) months, at the option and expense of the owner of the bitten
animal. All animals and any person owning, harboring or keeping such animal
shall be subject to the rabies regulations adopted by the Oklahoma state board
of health, and any amendments thereto, all pursuant to the authority contained
in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-508. (Ord. 2991, 5-3-1994; amd. 2005 Code;
Ord. 3449, 11-3-2009)
   C.   Rabies Outbreak; Declaration Of Emergency: In the event of an outbreak
of rabies within the city, the mayor and city council shall declare a state of
emergency, and all dogs shall be confined to the premises of the owners for a
period of thirty (30) days. Any dog running at large during this period shall
be impounded. (1986 Code § 3-19)
5-3-15: ANIMAL DYING AFTER BITING PERSON; DISPOSITION:
   A.   Report Results To Person Bitten: It shall be the obligation of the
owner of the animal, after receipt of the report of examination, to immediately
report the results thereof to the person bitten or to some relative of such
person twenty one (21) years of age or older. In addition, the written report
of examination shall be forthwith delivered to the mayor and city council.
(1986 Code § 3-20; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Application Of Section: The provision of this section shall not only
apply to bites by such animals, but to scratches or other means by which such
person incurs an open wound inflicted by the animal, or by which a person who
has open wounds has been exposed to saliva, urine, defecation or other bodily
fluids or excretions of the animal. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-16: HARBORING DANGEROUS, VICIOUS, MENACING, OR NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Vicious Animal Or Animal Exhibiting Menacing Behavior Prohibited:
Unless specifically allowed by court order, or unless specifically provided for
otherwise in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep and/or
harbor an animal declared to be a vicious animal or an animal exhibiting
menacing behavior within the corporate limits of the city. Each day such an
animal is kept within the city shall be deemed to be a separate violation.
   B.   Dangerous Dog Or Potentially Dangerous Dogs Unlawful Without Permit: It
shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep or harbor a dangerous dog or a
potentially dangerous dog within the city limits unless the person who owns,
possesses, keeps or harbors the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog obtains
an annual permit from the city. In order to obtain such a permit:
      1.   The applicant must have the premises upon which the dog is to be
harbored or kept inspected by the chief of police or his designee to ensure
such premises is sufficient to hold the animal.
      2.   The applicant must present a copy of a policy of liability
insurance, such as homeowner's insurance, or surety bond, issued by an insurer
qualified under 36 Oklahoma Statutes in the amount of not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) insuring the owner for any personal injuries
inflicted by the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      3.   The applicant must pay an annual fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the
city for such permit.
      4.   The dog cannot be ordered banished from the city or ordered to be
destroyed by court order.
It shall be unlawful to fail to maintain the liability insurance or bond
required in this section at any time a dangerous dog is owned, harbored or kept
in the corporate limits of the city. Nothing in this subsection should be
construed to prevent a court order to banish any particular animal from the
city or to prohibit euthanasia of a particular animal under authority of
subsection K of this section.
   C.   Potentially Dangerous Dog Permit Requirements: It is unlawful for one
who harbors, owns, possesses or keeps a potentially dangerous dog to permit the
dog to be unconfined or otherwise fail to meet the requirements as set forth by
this section, and to this end and after obtaining the proper permit for a
potentially dangerous dog such person or persons shall:
      1.   Keep the dog indoors or in a fenced enclosure;
      2.   Prevent the dog from being at large in the city;
      3.   Place and maintain a "Beware Of Dog" warning sign upon each gate or
entrance into the fenced enclosure where such animal is kept and place such
sign on each side of the fenced enclosure without a gate that faces a public
street, private street, or alleyway;
      4.   Prevent the dog from having any kind of unsupervised access to
children and small animals;
      5.   Maintain all fenced enclosures in a state of repair that prevents
the dog from running at large, and prevents entrance by small children and
other animals;
      6.   Maintain a lock upon all gates and entrances to the fenced enclosure
sufficient to prevent access by small children or animals;
      7.   Muzzle and be in direct control of the dog anytime the dog is not
indoors or within a fenced enclosure;
      8.   Notify the police department when moving the place where the dog is
kept from one location to another in the city and having any new location
inspected by the chief of police or designee to ensure such premises meets the
requirements of this section prior to actually moving, harboring or keeping the
dog at the new location;
      9.   Notify the police department anytime the dog gets loose and is
running at large.
   D.   Potentially Dangerous Dog Permit Revocation:
      1.   The chief of police or his designee may revoke a potentially
dangerous dog permit when:
         a.   The dog is found at large two (2) or more times in any twelve
(12) month period, or
         b.   For failure to meet any of the requirements of subsection C of
this section two (2) or more times within any twelve (12) month period, or
         c.   Failure to maintain liability insurance or bond as required in
subsection B2 of this section, or
         d.   The dog, without provocation, attacks or bites any person or
animal.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, harbor or keep a potentially
dangerous dog within the corporate city limits after a permit has been revoked.
Each day a potentially dangerous dog is owned, harbored, possessed or kept
within the city after the revocation of a permit shall be considered a separate
violation.
      3.   The person who owns, possesses, keeps or harbors the potentially
dangerous dog may appeal the revocation by making written application to the
municipal court and appearing on the next scheduled court date; however, the
dog must be removed from the corporate city limits pending the appeal.
   E.   Impoundment Of Potentially Dangerous Dog:
      1.   A potentially dangerous dog may be impounded at the owner's expense
within the corporate limits of the city anytime the dog is found to be at
large. A potentially dangerous dog may also be impounded at the owner's expense
from the place where the potentially dangerous dog is harbored or kept, when:
         a.   The fenced enclosure for the dog is found to be in a state of
disrepair or damage so that the potentially dangerous dog could be at large,
and/or small children or animals could access the place where the dog is kept.
         b.   The permit has been revoked and the person who owns, possesses,
keeps or harbors the potentially dangerous dog does not remove the dog from the
corporate limits of the city within twenty four (24) hours of such revocation.
         c.   A person pending a hearing on a potentially dangerous dog
declaration fails to adhere to the requirements of this chapter.
         d.   The potentially dangerous dog, without provocation, attacks or
bites any person or animal.
      2.   Nothing in this section prohibits the immediate impoundment or
destruction of an animal when necessary for the protection of the public,
property, an animal or any person.
   F.   Dangerous Dogs Unlawful Without Permit:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep or harbor a dangerous dog
within the city limits unless the person who owns or harbors the dangerous dog
obtains an annual permit from the city, and in such event the following shall
apply:
         a.   The applicant must have the premises upon which the dangerous dog
is to be harbored or kept inspected by the chief of police or designee to
ensure such premises meets the requirement of this chapter.
         b.   The applicant must present a copy of a policy of liability
insurance, such as homeowner's insurance, or surety bond, issued by an insurer
qualified under 36 Oklahoma Statutes in the amount of not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) insuring the owner for any personal injuries
inflicted by the dangerous dog.
         c.   The applicant must pay an annual fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to
the city for such permit.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to fail to maintain the liability insurance or
bond required in this section at any time a dangerous dog is owned, possessed,
harbored or kept in the corporate limits of the city.
   G.   Dangerous Dog Permit Requirements: It is unlawful for one who harbors,
owns, possesses or keeps a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be unconfined or
otherwise fail to meet requirements as set forth by this section, and to this
end and after obtaining the proper permit for a dangerous dog such person or
persons shall:
      1.   Keep the dangerous dog indoors, or in a "proper enclosure of a
dangerous dog" said term meaning that, while on the owner's property, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure with at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
space for each dog kept therein which is over six (6) months of age, and which
is suitable to prevent the entry of children and designed to prevent the animal
from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top,
and shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog. In addition,
such fenced enclosure must be contained within a separate perimeter fenced area
such as a yard fence, and shall be situated so that the fenced enclosure is at
least five feet (5') from the perimeter or yard fence.
      2.   Prevent the dangerous dog from being at large in the city.
      3.   Place and maintain a "Beware Of Dog" warning sign upon the gate to
the fenced enclosure containing the dangerous dog, and upon each gate or
entrance into perimeter or yard fence where such dog is kept and to place such
sign on each side of the perimeter or yard fence without a gate that faces a
public street, private street or alleyway.
      4.   Prevent the dangerous dog from having any kind of unsupervised
access to children and small animals.
      5.   Maintain all fenced enclosures and perimeter fences in a state of
repair that prevents the dangerous dog from running at large, and prevents
entrance by small children and other animals.
      6.   Maintain a lock upon all gates and entrances to the fenced enclosure
and perimeter fence sufficient to prevent access by small children or animals.
      7.   Muzzle and be in direct supervision and control of the dangerous dog
anytime the dog is not indoors or within a "proper enclosure of a dangerous
dog".
      8.   Notify the police department when moving the place where the dog is
kept from one location to another in the city and having any new location
inspected by the chief of police or his designee to ensure such premises meets
the requirements of this section prior to actually moving, harboring or keeping
the dog at the new location.
      9.   Maintain the dog in a crate or similar device anytime the dog is
transported.
      10.   Notify the police department anytime the dog gets loose and is
running at large.
   H.   Dangerous Dog Permit Revocation:
      1.   The chief of police or his designee may revoke a dangerous dog
permit when:
         a.   The dangerous dog is found at large, or
         b.   For failure to meet any of the requirements of subsection G of
this section two (2) or more times within any twelve (12) month period, or
         c.   Fail to maintain liability insurance or bond as required in
subsection F1b of this section, or
         d.   The dog, without provocation, attacks or bites any person or
animal.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, harbor or keep a dangerous dog
within the corporate city limits after a permit has been revoked. Each day a
dangerous dog is owned, possessed, harbored or kept within the city after the
revocation of a permit shall be considered a separate violation.
      3.   The person who owns, possesses, keeps or harbors the dangerous dog
may appeal the revocation by making written application to the municipal court
and appearing on the next scheduled court date; however, the dangerous dog must
be removed from the corporate city limits pending the appeal.
   I.   Impoundment Of Dangerous Dog: A dangerous dog may be impounded at the
owner's expense within the corporate limits of the city anytime the dog is
found to be at large. A dangerous dog may also be impounded at the owner's
expense from the place where the dog is harbored or kept, when:
      1.   The fenced enclosure or perimeter fence containing the dog is found
to be in a state of disrepair or damage so that the dog could get out and be at
large, and/or small children or animals could access the place where the dog is
kept.
      2.   The permit has been revoked and the person who owns, possesses,
keeps or harbors the dog does not immediately remove the dog from the corporate
limits of the city.
      3.   A person, pending a hearing on a dangerous dog declaration, fails to
adhere to the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   The dog, without provocation, attacks or bites any person or animal.
Nothing in this subsection prohibits the immediate impoundment or destruction
of any animal when necessary for the protection of the public, property, an
animal, or any person.
   J.   Inspections: The location at which any dangerous dog, potentially
dangerous dog, vicious animal, or animal exhibiting menacing behavior is kept
is subject to inspection at any time by any police or animal control officer of
the city for the purpose of ensuring the dog is being restrained as required by
this section.
   K.   Declaration Of Animal As Potentially Dangerous Dog, Dangerous Dog,
Vicious Animal, Or Animal Exhibiting Menacing Behavior:
      1.   A judge of the municipal court, upon the presentment of a verified
complaint by an animal control officer, law enforcement officer, or the city
attorney, and after notice and a hearing on the matter, shall determine whether
an animal or dog being kept at a specified location within the city is a
potentially dangerous dog, dangerous dog, a vicious animal, or an animal
exhibiting menacing behavior, as defined by city ordinance. Upon such a
finding, the judge shall issue an order of the municipal court declaring the
animal a dangerous dog, potentially dangerous dog, a vicious animal, or an
animal exhibiting menacing behavior. The order shall be served on either the
person(s) owning, possessing, keeping and/or harboring said dog or animal
(service on 1 constituting service on them all), or if none can be found, by
publication in the newspaper and by posting the order in three (3) public
places.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, the municipal
judge's order, if justice so requires, may order the destruction of the
dangerous dog, potentially dangerous dog, a vicious animal or an animal
exhibiting menacing behavior, or may order its removal and/or banishment from
the city. The order may also contain reasonable restrictions or stipulations on
the animal not herein stated in this chapter. Those who own, possess, keep and/
or harbor such dogs or animals will be required to comply with all conditions
contained in the order pertaining to a dangerous dog, potentially dangerous
dog, vicious animal or animal exhibiting menacing behavior, and in addition
shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep or harbor
a dangerous dog, potentially dangerous dog, a vicious animal, or an animal
exhibiting menacing behavior, within the limits of this city contrary to the
order of the municipal judge or contrary to any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   L.   Duty Upon Complaint: When an animal control officer, police officer or
city attorney intends to or actually files a complaint with the municipal court
requesting an animal or dog be declared a dangerous dog, potentially dangerous
dog, a vicious animal, or an animal exhibiting menacing behavior, the person or
persons who either own, possess, keep and/or harbor the animal or dog shall be
given written notice if they can be found, and if they cannot be found, notice
shall be published once and posted in three (3) conspicuous places in the city;
provided, however, that notice to one of the aforementioned classes of persons
shall be deemed notice to all. The notice shall include the date and time of
issue, the date and time the matter is to be heard in municipal court and the
required duties of the owner or keeper until such time the matter is heard. It
is unlawful to fail to adhere to the required duties after notice has been
served. The order may provide for impoundment of the dog or animal at the
owner's expense, or, absent such order, the duty of the party to house the dog
pending a hearing are as follows:
      1.   The animal or dog shall be kept indoors; or
      2.   The animal or dog shall be kept in a secure fenced enclosure with
locked gates that is sufficient to prevent the animal or dog from being at
large and to prevent access to the animal or dog by small children or other
animals; and
      3.   To prevent at all times the animal or dog from being at large; and
      4.   To muzzle and to be in constant attendance and supervision of the
animal or dog whenever the animal or dog is not in a fenced enclosure or
indoors.
   M.   Cost Of Action: The person owning, keeping or harboring an animal or
dog for which a complaint has been filed before the municipal court to declare
such animal a vicious animal, an animal exhibiting menacing behavior, a
dangerous dog, or a potentially dangerous dog, shall pay, upon the hearing of
the matter before the municipal court, court costs of fifty dollars ($50.00) if
the animal or dog is actually declared to be a vicious animal, an animal
exhibiting menacing behavior, a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog.
   N.   Dismissal Of Action:
      1.   If the person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal or dog for
which a complaint has been filed before the municipal court to declare such
animal a vicious animal, an animal exhibiting menacing behavior, a dangerous
dog or a potentially dangerous dog either:
         a.   Voluntarily and permanently removes the animal or dog from the
corporate city limits, or
         b.   Voluntarily has the animal euthanized by or under the supervision
of a veterinarian licensed in this state, or a licensed animal shelter, and
provides proof to the court that such animal has been removed or euthanized,
the court shall dismiss the action without cost.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to forge or falsify proof of euthanasia, to be
deceptive in declaring the animal or dog has been removed from city limits, or
to return the animal or dog to the corporate limits after declaring to the
court such animal has been permanently removed.
   O.   Limitations On Declaration:
      1.   No animal or dog may be deemed to be a dangerous dog, a potentially
dangerous dog, or vicious or dangerous animal, when:
         a.   Aggressive behavior, injury or damage was brought about by a
person who was breaking and entering into any domestic residence or other
property or attempting to break and enter into any domestic residence or other
property, or attempting to cause harm to an owner, possessor, keeper or one who
is harboring the animal, or a guest or family member of any of the
aforementioned.
         b.   A police service dog, while on duty, which becomes aggressive, or
inflicts injury or damage due to law enforcement action or activity while such
animal is under the control or supervision.
      2.   Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or
damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime. (Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-17: DEFENSE AGAINST ATTACKING DOG:
Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without provocation, bites him or another, or acts like it intends to bite
any person, or attacks, or assaults any person, in such a manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed. (1986 Code § 3-13.2)
5-3-18: CERTAIN DOGS DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any dog which scratches or digs into any flowerbed, garden, tilled soil, vines,
shrubbery or small plants, and so doing injures the same, or which habitually
prowls around or over any premises not the property of its owner, to the
annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises; or which overturns any
garbage can or other vessel for waste products, or scatters the contents of
same; or which chases or kills any chicken or other domestic fowl; is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (1986 Code § 3-23)
5-3-19: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS; REDEMPTION; SALE;
EUTHANASIA:
   A.   Animal Control Officer: The chief of police, or his or her designee,
shall be the animal control officer for the city. Multiple animal control
officers may be appointed. If a person other than a law enforcement officer is
appointed for the purpose of enforcing this chapter, he or she shall possess
all authority of a police officer of the city for enforcing these animal
regulations. Animal control officers, police officers and any other persons as
the chief of police may designate are hereby directed to take up all animals or
fowl running at large or otherwise in violation of this chapter and confine
them in a pound, animal shelter or other facility owned by the city or approved
by the city council.
   B.   Keeping Of City Animal Shelter; Contract With Other Entities:
      1.   The city may maintain a city animal shelter (a.k.a., pound),
contract with other persons or entities for such services, or both.
      2.   In case of the impoundment of an animal or fowl, the costs of
housing and sustenance of the animal or fowl, together with all other costs and
charges incurred by the city, or an animal shelter or facility, shall be paid
by the owner or someone on behalf of the owner to the city, animal shelter or
other facility, before any such animal or fowl is released.
   C.   Impoundment: An animal control officer, a police officer, or such other
officer or employee of the city may take into custody and impound any animal or
fowl running at large or in violation of any provision of the ordinances of the
city and may enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises to
take such animal or fowl into custody. A description of the animal or fowl, the
date impounded and the place of impoundment shall be kept by the chief of
police or his designee. If the owner can be identified, the chief of police, or
his designee, shall send notice to the owner orally by telephone or in writing
at the address on the city's registration records that unless claimed by the
owner, the animal will be disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   D.   Redemption: Any animal or fowl impounded may be redeemed by payment of
the required fees and costs provided for in this chapter; provided, however, no
unlicensed dog may be redeemed until after the owner has procured a license for
the dog.
   E.   Sale: Any animal or fowl, impounded under authority of these ordinances
may be sold at public auction by the animal control officer at any time after
the expiration of ten (10) days from the time the animal or fowl is impounded.
Notice of the date, time and place of the sale shall be given at least three
(3) days prior thereto, either by publication or posting the same in three (3)
public places in the city. All proceeds from the sale of any such animal or
fowl shall be immediately remitted to the city clerk and shall be placed in the
general fund of the city. Any person having custody or control of any such
funds shall account to the city, at least monthly, for all monies received, and
shall also report all monthly expenses incurred. The previous owner of any such
animal or fowl so sold shall be entitled to the excess of the sales price, if
any, over the cost of keeping such animal or fowl and any applicable fee and/or
penalty; provided, however, such owner must make such a claim within thirty
(30) days after the sale, or the claim will be forever barred, and no such
claim shall be considered or approved by the city council unless presented
within said thirty (30) day period.
   F.   Euthanasia: Except for animals subject to hearing and notice procedures
set forth in this chapter, all animals taken into custody as provided in this
chapter may be destroyed after seventy two (72) hours by the animal control
officer, his designee, or an animal shelter housing the animal for the city,
provided the animal is not redeemed or claimed as provided by ordinance.
Animals which are vicious, dangerous, exhibiting menacing behavior or which are
suspected to be diseased animals may be immediately killed or otherwise
destroyed as necessary to preserve the public peace and safety. Euthanasia of
animals under the control of the city, or an entity acting on behalf of the
city, shall utilize lethal injection as the method of euthanasia; provided,
however, officers of the city and/or the animal control officer may destroy in
the most prudent and humane manner possible, circumstances considered, any
menacing, aggressive, vicious, dangerous, injured or suspected diseased animals
found at large, or found endangering the lives or well being of people, other
animals, or the officers of the city or animal control officer. (Ord. 3533, 9-
4-2012)
5-3-20: RESERVED:
(Ord. 3533, 9-4-2012)
5-3-21: ANIMALS UPON OR NEAR SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive, hitch, tie or place any
horse, mule, colt, cow, calf, bull or bullock, or any animal of the horse or
bovine kind, or any domestic animal on any sidewalk in the city, or so near the
same as to interrupt or disturb or endanger persons traveling thereon. (1986
Code § 19-56)
5-3-22: WILD FOWL SANCTUARY:
   A.   City Declared As Sanctuary: The entire area comprising the city is
hereby declared to be a wild fowl sanctuary. (1986 Code § 3-27)
   B.   Certain Wild Fowl Eliminated: In the event starlings or other wild fowl
increase in great numbers or are found congregating to such an extent within
the limits of the city, as might be or become a hazard or nuisance to the
inhabitants of the city, and when recommended by the health department of
either the city, county, or state, or when ordered by the city council, the
chief of police may, in cooperation with the Audubon Society, Bird Club, or
Humane Society, if such exist in the city, cause the elimination of such fowl
or as many of them as will remove the hazard. (1986 Code § 3-28)
5-3-23: PENALTY 1 :
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by
the health officer or police chief pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Every day's violation of any provision of this chapter or
of such order of the health officer or police chief shall constitute a separate
offense. (1986 Code § 3-29; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-9-12A of this code for fines imposed for certain animal related violations.
5-3-24: CHICKENS AND QUAIL:
   A.   Backyard Chickens And Quail: The following words, terms and phrases,
when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
CHICKEN: A laying hen commonly raised for the productions of eggs.
COOP:    A small structure or enclosure where chickens or quail nest, roost or
         perch and may include feeding and watering devices.
QUAIL:   A male or female quail.
         A separate outside enclosure physically connected to a coop where
RUN:     chickens or quail can walk or run about, which may include feeding and
         watering devices.
 
   B.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, the
keeping of no more than six (6) chickens and six (6) quail over eight (8) weeks
of age, and twelve (12) chickens and twelve (12) quail less than eight (8)
weeks of age, in the rear yard of a property zoned for residential use is
allowed. Roosters are prohibited.
   C.   Prior to construction of any housing for chickens/quail, the property
owner shall obtain a building permit, not to exceed twenty dollars ($20.00).
   D.   Chickens and quail must be kept in separate housing. The facilities for
the keeping of such chickens and quail shall comply with the following
requirements.
      1.   Housing: Chickens/quail must be kept in a coop with an attached run.
Both the coop and run shall have a top covering. The coop shall be constructed
in a manner that can be secured to protect the chickens/quail from predators
and withstand adverse weather conditions. It shall provide four (4) square feet
of floor space per chicken/quail, be well ventilated and include roost capacity
and nesting boxes consistent with the number of chickens/quail kept. The height
of the coop shall be less than the height of the screening and shall not be
visible to adjoining or neighboring properties. Any electrical components or
heat sources must comply with the city’s Building Code.
      2.   Run: The run shall be of sufficient size and dimension to provide
eight (8) square feet area per chicken/quail. The height of the run shall be
less than the height of the screening and shall not be visible to adjoining or
neighboring property. The enclosure shall be constructed of metal wire or a
similar material adequate to permit the unimpeded flow of air and sunshine
through the enclosure area and of a sufficient height, density, and cover to
prevent the escape of the chickens during occupancy. The use of electric wire
for this purpose is prohibited.
      3.   Setback: The coop and run shall not be located closer than thirty
feet (30') at its nearest point to any building used or occupied for human
habitation (except the property owner’s residence), nor shall it be located
closer than ten feet (10') from any side or rear yard property line.
      4.   Screening: The property owner shall be responsible for screening of
the coop and run from adjoining or neighboring properties. The screening fence
around the coop and run shall be opaque (not able to be seen through). The
screening fence shall be constructed or permanent material, such as wood,
stone, rock, concrete, masonry brick, or brick. The screening fence shall not
be less than six feet (6') or exceed eight feet (8') in height. An existing
opaque fence along with side and rear property lines shall be deemed sufficient
under this section.
      5.   Flock Maintenance: Chickens/quail shall be confined to the coop
between dusk and dawn and shall be confined to the coop and run areas at all
times. Adequate food and water shall be available at all times the chickens/
quail are present.
      6.   Sanitation: The coop and run shall be cleaned daily to prevent the
accumulation of unconsumed food, fecal matter, bedding or nesting material.
Property owner shall bag any waste that is not composted and dispose of waste
by placing the bag in a garbage container, OR the waste may be composted by
using methods approved by the Oklahoma State University (OSU) Extension Office.
      7.   Covenants And Leases: This section is not intended to be construed
in degradation of or in conflict with any restrictive covenant or lease
agreement that may be applicable.
   E.   No Outdoor Slaughtering: Outdoor slaughtering of any chickens/quail is
prohibited.
   F.   No Sales At Residence: The selling of any chickens/quail or eggs at any
property zoned for residential use is prohibited.
(Ord. 844, 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 4
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Policy
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Administration
5-4-4: Unlawful Practice
5-4-5: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-4-6: Financing Of Housing
5-4-7: Brokerage Services
5-4-8: Exemptions
5-4-9: Education And Conciliation
5-4-10: Complaint Procedure
5-4-11: Investigations; Subpoenas; Evidence
5-4-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-4-13: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-4-14: Prevention Of Intimidation In Cases
5-4-15: Separability Of Provisions
5-4-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
5-4-5,
5-4-6 and
5-4-7 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 2827,
6-17-1991)
5-4-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority For Administration: The authority and responsibility for
administering the act shall be in the mayor of the city.
   B.   Delegation Of Duties:
      1.   The mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business, or matter under this chapter.
      2.   The mayor shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   Executive Departments, Agencies: All executive departments and agencies
shall administer their programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the mayor to further such purposes. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-
1991)
5-4-4: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
5-4-8 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in section
5-4-5 of this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   Dwellings: All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing in section
5-4-5 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time. Provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period. Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not
own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time. Provided further, that the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented: a) without the use in any manner of the sales
or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker,
agent, or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or
person; and b) without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
5-4-5C of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   Business Of Selling Or Renting Dwellings: For the purpose of subsection
B of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or
renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-5: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-4-4 of this chapter, and except as exempted by sections
5-4-4B and
5-4-8 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial
status or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of persons of a particular race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familiar status. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd.
2005 Code)
5-4-6: FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age,
handicap, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purpose
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
Provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection
5-4-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-7: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or
familial status. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-8: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, gender, color, national origin, age,
handicap or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (Ord. 2827,
6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the mayor shall commence such
educational and conciliator activities as will further the purposes of this
chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and other
interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter and his
suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to
work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-
1991)
5-4-10: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint; Investigation; Resolution:
      1.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the mayor.
      2.   Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information
and be in such form as the mayor requires.
      3.   Upon receipt of such a complaint, the mayor shall furnish a copy of
the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to
commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint, or within
thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of reference under
subsection C of this section, the mayor shall investigate the complaint and
give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve
it.
      5.   If the mayor decides to resolve the complaints, he shall proceed to
try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by
informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or
done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as
evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written
consent of the persons concerned. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
      6.   Any employee of the mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of this provision shall be (upon conviction) punishable as provided
in section
1-9-13 of this code (see attachment 9 attached to ordinance 2827 on file in the
office of the city clerk). (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Time Limit; Responses:
      1.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred.
      2.   Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
      3.   Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time.
      4.   A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him, and
with the leave of the mayor, which shall be granted whenever it would be
reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time.
      5.   Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Voluntary Compliance: If within thirty (30) days
after a complaint is filed with the mayor, the mayor has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a compliant with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The mayor will assist in this filing.
   D.   Civil Action:
      1.   If the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30)
days thereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
      2.   If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Trial: Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial,
the mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; EVIDENCE:
   A.   Investigations; Access To Records:
      1.   In conducting an investigation, the mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation. Provided
however, that the mayor first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures.
      2.   The mayor may issue subpoenas to compel his access to or the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
      3.   The mayor may administer oaths.
   B.   Respondent; Subpoenas: Upon written application to the mayor, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the mayor to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent, and such
subpoenas shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his request.
   C.   Witnesses; Fees:
      1.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts.
      2.   Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Petition To Revoke Or Modify Subpoena:
      1.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena.
      2.   The mayor shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena
requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it
requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under
investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the
evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other
good reason.
   E.   Refusal To Obey Subpoena: In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena, the mayor or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
   F.   Failure To Testify Or Produce Documents:
      1.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or
to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the mayor shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code (see attachment 9 attached to ordinance 2827 on file in the
office of the city clerk).
      2.   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the mayor, shall make
or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record, or other document submitted to the mayor pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code (see attachment 9 attached to ordinance 2827 on file in the
office of the city clerk). (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
   G.   City Attorney; Litigation: The city attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the mayor participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Civil Action: The rights granted by sections
5-4-4,
5-4-5,
5-4-6 and
5-4-7 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Provided however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection
5-4-10D of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the mayor are likely to result
in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of
in the complaint made to the mayor and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   B.   Temporary Injunction, Restraining Order; Award Damages: The court may
grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent or temporary
injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may award to the
plaintiff actual damages, and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the
case of a prevailing plaintiff. Provided, that the said plaintiff in the
opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
(Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-13: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of, his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by section
5-4-4,
5-4-5,
5-4-6 or
5-4-7 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
5-4-14: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force,
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap or familial status and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status, in any of
the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection
A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination, on account of race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-15: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to
other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 2827, 6-17-1991)
CHAPTER 5
RACIAL PROFILING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Racial Profiling Prohibited; Policy Adopted
5-5-1: RACIAL PROFILING PROHIBITED; POLICY ADOPTED:
The city council hereby adopts a detailed written policy that prohibits racial
profiling, and clearly defines the elements constituting racial profiling, as
submitted by the Oklahoma human rights commission, and in compliance with 22
Oklahoma Statutes section 34.3. One copy of said policy shall be and remain on
file in the office of the city clerk. (2005 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC LAWS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Law Adopted
6-1-2: Insurance; Security Verification
6-1-3: Accidents
6-1-4: Speed Regulations
6-1-5: Seat Belts
6-1-6: Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Hose
6-1-7: Funeral Processions; Parades
6-1-8: Driving On Sidewalks; Safety Zones
6-1-9: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-1-10: Limitations On Backing
6-1-11: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-1-12: Obstructing Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
6-1-13: Clinging To Vehicles
6-1-14: Controlled Access
6-1-15: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
6-1-16: Unlawful Riding
6-1-17: Railroad Trains Blocking Streets
6-1-18: Dangerous Objects In Streets
6-1-19: Unlawful Turning, U-Turns
6-1-20: Mail Vehicles Exempted
6-1-21: Penalties; Procedure On Arrest
6-1-22: Release Upon Posting Bond
6-1-23: Municipal Court Sessions
6-1-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
   A.   State Law Adopted: The provisions of title 47 of Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended from time to time, be and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
within the penal code of the city of Vinita by reference as though wholly set
out herein.
   B.   Penalty Provisions: The fine and penalty provisions provided in said
title 47 of Oklahoma Statutes, be and the same are hereby excepted herefrom,
and there is substituted therefor the fine and penalty provisions heretofore
provided by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, as to similar
offenses; provided further, that in the event that no fine or penalty for an
offense described in said title 47 has heretofore been provided by the city,
such penalty shall be that provided by subsection
6-1-21G of this chapter. (1986 Code § 20-1)
6-1-2: INSURANCE; SECURITY VERIFICATION:
   A.   Possession Of Security Verification Form: Every operator of a motor
vehicle registered in this state shall, while operating or using such vehicle
within the city, carry either an operator's or an owner's security verification
form issued by a carrier, provided the operator is not excluded from coverage
thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the state department of public safety,
reflecting liability coverage. (1986 Code § 20-34; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: An owner or operator who fails to comply
with the compulsory insurance law of this state, or who fails to produce for
inspection a valid and current security verification form or equivalent form
which has been issued by the state department of public safety upon request of
any peace officer, representative of said department of public safety or other
authorized person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be subject to a fine as set forth in subsection
1-9-12A of this code. (1986 Code § 20-35; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Suspension Or Deferral Of Sentence: A sentence imposed for a violation
of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-600 et seq., may be suspended or deferred in
whole or part by the court. (1986 Code § 20-36)
   D.   Dismissal Of Charge Upon Proof Of Insurance: Any person producing proof
in court that a current security verification form or equivalent form which has
been issued by the department reflecting liability coverage for such person was
in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of
such charge. (1986 Code § 20-37)
   E.   Notice To Department: Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of
sentence, the court clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of
public safety within ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(1986 Code § 20-38; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-3: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Damage To Vehicle:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as
possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the
scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection B
of this section.
      2.   Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
      3.   Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirement under
such circumstances shall be guilty of an offense. (1986 Code § 20-147)
   B.   Giving Information; Rendering Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved
in an accident resulting in damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended
by any person shall give his correct name, address, and registration number of
the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit
his operator's or chauffeur's license to the driver, occupant of or person
attending any vehicle collided with. (1986 Code § 20-148)
   C.   Duty Upon Striking Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which
collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
of the correct name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking
the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place in or on the
vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and
owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances
thereof. (1986 Code § 20-149)
   D.   Report Of Accident:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any persons or in which it
is apparent that damage to one vehicle or other property is in excess of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident
to a police officer or to the police department.
      2.   Making out a written report of the accident in the office of the
police department as soon as practicable after the accident, to be forwarded to
the department of public safety of the state, in accordance with law, shall
also be deemed compliance with this section. (1986 Code § 20-13; amd. 2005
Code)
6-1-4: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basic Rule: Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the
same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of
the highway, and any other condition then existing; and no person shall drive
any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it
to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   Maximum Limits: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this title or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful
speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess
of such maximum limits as follows: (1986 Code § 20-39)
      1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour on any street adjacent to any school
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on days when
school is in session, except as otherwise posted or required by state
authority. (1986 Code § 20-39; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Thirty (30) miles per hour on other streets and on streets adjacent
to schools at other times than that specified immediately above; provided, that
the city council by motion or resolution may reduce or increase this speed
limit, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets
or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (1986 Code §
20-39)
6-1-5: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Seat Belts Required: Every operator and front seat passenger of a
passenger car operated in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to 49 CFR section 571.208. For the purpose of this
section, "passenger car" means "vehicle" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1102, except that "passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck
tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles
used primarily for farm use and licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 1134. (1986 Code § 20-149.1; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable to wear
a safety seat belt system for medical reasons.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who
is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
      3.   This section shall not apply to any passenger vehicle which was
manufactured or assembled before the 1966 models, unless such vehicle is now
equipped with a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system.
   C.   Routine Stops Prohibited: No law enforcement officer shall make routine
stops of motorists for the purpose of enforcing this section. (1986 Code § 20-
149.1)
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punished by payment of a fine and court costs not to exceed twenty dollars
($20.00). (1986 Code § 20-149.1; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-6: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (1986 Code § 20-56)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire
department official in command. (1986 Code § 20-57)
6-1-7: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; PARADES:
   A.   Driving Through Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (1986 Code § 20-58)
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe. (1986 Code
§ 20-59)
   C.   Funeral Processions Identified: A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such other method as
may be determined and designated by the police department. (1986 Code § 20-60)
   D.   Permit Required For Certain Events: No funeral procession, or parade
containing two hundred (200) or more persons or fifty (50) or more vehicles,
except the military forces of the United States and the military forces of this
state, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in accordance
with a permit issued by the chief of police and such other regulations as are
set forth herein which may apply. (1986 Code § 20-61)
6-1-8: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS; SAFETY ZONES:
   A.   Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or
within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1986
Code § 20-62)
   B.   Safety Zones: No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within
a safety zone or island. (1986 Code § 20-73)
6-1-9: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1986 Code § 20-63)
6-1-10: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1986
Code § 20-64)
6-1-11: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1986 Code § 20-65)
6-1-12: OBSTRUCTING DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   Drivers: No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when
there are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as
to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as
to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the
vehicle.
   B.   Passengers: No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1986 Code § 20-67)
6-1-13: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1986 Code §
20-68)
6-1-14: CONTROLLED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(1986 Code § 20-69)
6-1-15: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1986 Code § 20-70)
6-1-16: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1986 Code § 20-71)
6-1-17: RAILROAD TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS 1 :
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than ten (10) minutes. (1986 Code § 20-72; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-6-5 of this code.
6-1-18: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or let fall and
remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick, or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property, or to render
a street unsafe for traffic. (1986 Code § 20-74)
6-1-19: UNLAWFUL TURNING, U-TURNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful from and after the effective date of this section
for any driver of an automobile or other vehicle to turn such a vehicle around
so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any point on any designated state
or federal highway within the limits of the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful from and after the effective date of this section
for the driver of any automobile or other vehicle traveling upon any designated
state or federal highway within the limits of the city to turn such vehicle
around so as to proceed in the opposite direction by driving such automobile or
vehicle off such highway onto public or private property or driveways and
driving back onto said highway, and proceeding in the opposite direction;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the drivers of
automobiles or vehicles stopping at private property under their ownership or
in their possession or stopping at their place of business or employment or
stopping to do business at a place of business along said highway. (1986 Code §
20-77)
6-1-20: MAIL VEHICLES EXEMPTED:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the vehicles of the United
States postal department, while engaged in the business of said department, or
the duly authorized and licensed operators of such vehicles in pursuance of
their duties under said department from:
   A.   Double parking such vehicles while engaged in collecting and delivering
U.S. mail.
   B.   Leaving the vehicle while the motor is running in a double parked
condition without a licensed operator therein.
   C.   Using areas designated as "loading zones" and "taxi zones" for the
collection and delivery of the U.S. mail.
   D.   Leaving the vehicle parked in an alley where less than ten feet (10')
of alley width remains for the use of through traffic.
   E.   The use of designated passenger loading zones, however, such exemptions
shall apply only for the purpose of momentary stops for mail pick up and
delivery, and shall not permit the use of such areas for the general mail
delivery. (1986 Code § 20-78)
6-1-21: PENALTIES; PROCEDURE ON ARREST 1 :
   A.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any act
forbidden, or to fail to perform any act required, in this title.
      2.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or ward to violate any
provision of this title.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or its name to be driven or
to stand or to be parked in violation of any provisions of this title. (1986
Code § 20-141)
   B.   Eluding Peace Officer: Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received
a visual and audible signal, a red light and a siren, from a police officer
driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an official
police, sheriff, or highway patrol, or state game ranger vehicle, directing the
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, and who wilfully increases his speed
or extinguishes his lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, or
wilfully attempts in any other manner to elude the police officer, or who does
elude such police officer within the city, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Anyone
found guilty of violating this subsection shall, upon conviction, be fined five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (1986 Code § 20-142; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Citations:
      1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering a citation to violators or, in
cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of this
title, by affixing such citations to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation, among other things, shall indicate briefly
the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct
the violator to present the citation at the police station or other designated
place within five (5) days or such other reasonable time as may be specified
thereon. Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator
and to take him into custody, or to file a complaint against him, at any time.
      2.   The city council may require that the police officers use citations
furnished by the city clerk and that such citations be serially numbered, and
may regulate the use and handling of citations. (1986 Code § 20-143)
   D.   Failure To Comply With Citation: If a violator of any provision of this
title who has been given a citation as provided in subsection C of this section
fails to appear in accordance with the instruction on such citation, the chief
of police or his authorized agent shall send to the owner of the vehicle
involved a letter or other written notice informing him of the violation and
warning him to appear as directed and that, in the event such letter or notice
is disregarded for a period of ten (10) days, a complaint will be filed and
warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge
the power to file a complaint against him prior to the expiration of such time.
(1986 Code § 20-144)
   E.   Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking:
      1.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
      2.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation has been followed. (1986 Code § 20-145)
   F.   Entering Complaint; Issuance Of Warrant: In the event any person fails
to comply with a citation given to such person or attached to a vehicle, the
chief of police shall have a complaint entered against such person before the
municipal judge; and the municipal judge shall issue a warrant for the arrest
of such person. (1986 Code § 20-146)
   G.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this title, performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or falls to
perform any act required in this title, is guilty of an offense against the
city, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00), not including costs. (1986 Code § 20-150; amd. 2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-9-12A of this code for specific traffic violations and fines imposed.
6-1-22: RELEASE UPON POSTING BOND:
Any person arrested by a law enforcement officer for violation of a municipal
traffic ordinance or regulation may be released after:
   A.   Posting cash bail; or
   B.   Depositing with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate. (1986 Code § 20-138; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-23: MUNICIPAL COURT SESSIONS:
From the effective date of this chapter, the judge of the municipal court shall
conduct a session of the municipal court at least once every sixteen (16) days.
Notice of such sessions shall be given as prescribed in 25 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 301 through 312 of the Oklahoma open meeting act. (1986 Code § 20-140)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION; OBEDIENCE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Duty Of Police And Fire Departments
6-2-2: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-2-3: Required Obedience To Regulations, Officials
6-2-4: Pushcarts, Animal Drawn Vehicles
6-2-5: Coasters, Roller Skates Restricted
6-2-6: Compliance By Police Officers And Employees
6-2-7: Persons Working On Streets; Exceptions
6-2-8: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-2-9: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-2-10: Minitrucks
6-2-1: DUTY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Enforcement Of Regulations: It is the duty of the police department to
enforce the street traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle
laws applicable to street traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of
the city in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and
means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially
imposed upon the department by this title and any other traffic ordinances of
the city.
   B.   Directing Traffic: Officers of the police department or such officers
as are assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances; provided, that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department
may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws and ordinances.
   C.   Fire Department Assist Police Department: Officers of the fire
department, when at the scene of a fire or other emergency, may direct or
assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(1986 Code § 20-2)
6-2-2: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Time Limit: The city council, by motion or resolution, is hereby
empowered to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain
in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   Testing: The city council may have traffic control devices tested under
actual conditions of traffic. (1986 Code § 20-3)
6-2-3: REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS, OFFICIALS:
   A.   Regulations: It is an offense against the city for any person to do any
act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (1986 Code §
20-4)
   B.   Police And Fire Department Officials: No person shall wilfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or fire
department official. (1986 Code § 20-5)
6-2-4: PUSHCARTS, ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1986 Code § 20-6)
6-2-5: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES RESTRICTED:
No person upon roller skates, skateboards, or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such person shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as
a play street as authorized by ordinance of the city. (1986 Code § 20-7; amd.
2005 Code)
6-2-6: COMPLIANCE BY PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city, or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles; and
it is unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this
title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by state statute;
provided, that this title shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the national guard when performing any military
duty. (1986 Code § 20-8)
6-2-7: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work
upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair of
public utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flagmen; but
the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. (1986 Code § 20-9; amd. 2005 Code)
6-2-8: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Street: City personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving the streets of the city, and city personnel and utility
companies, when installing, improving, or repairing lines or other utility
facilities in the street, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to
control by the city council, to close any street or section thereof to traffic
during such repair, maintenance, or construction; and in exercising such
authority, shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   Entering Closed Areas: When any street has been closed to traffic under
the provisions of subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or
barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any
vehicle through, under, over, or around such traffic control devices or
barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area; except that the provisions
of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance, and repair, or to persons entering therein for the
protection of lives or property; provided, that persons having their places of
residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required: Whenever construction, repair, or
maintenance of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under
traffic, the city personnel, contractor, or utility company concerned shall
erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control devices to warn and guide the
public; and every person using such street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen, or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1986 Code § 20-10)
6-2-9: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Driver Privileges: The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon
returning from, a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
   B.   Conditions: The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger life
or property; and
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   C.   Audible And Visual Signals: The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such
vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals as required by law, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   Due Regard For Safety Of Others: The foregoing provisions shall not
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions
protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard for the
safety of others. (1986 Code § 20-11)
   E.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1986 Code § 20-12)
6-2-10: MINITRUCKS:
   A.   Minitrucks may be operated on the roadways of this city; provided,
however, minitrucks shall not be permitted to travel upon any highway in this
state which is a part of the national system of interstate and defense
highways. Operators of minitrucks shall comply with all traffic regulations and
rules of conduct for the operation of motor vehicles on the roadways of this
state provided by law.
   B.   "Minitruck" means a foreign manufactured import or domestic
manufactured vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine with a piston or
rotor displacement of one thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters or less, which is
sixty seven inches (67") or less in width, with an unladen dry weight of three
thousand four hundred (3,400) pounds or less, traveling on four (4) or more
tires, having a top speed of approximately fifty five (55) miles per hour,
equipped with a bed or compartment for hauling, and having an enclosed
passenger cab.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as to absolve operators of
minitrucks from the requirements of titling and registration of minitrucks
prior to operation on public roadways pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes 1151.3
effective November 1, 2008. (Ord. 3408, 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Authority To Install Signs, Devices
6-3-2: Manual And Specifications
6-3-3: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
6-3-4: Signs Required For Enforcement Purposes
6-3-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
6-3-6: Pedestrian Control Signals
6-3-7: Flashing Signals
6-3-8: Pedestrian Actuated School Crossing Signals
6-3-9: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
6-3-10: Interference With Devices Or Railroad Signs
6-3-11: Play Streets
6-3-12: Crosswalks, Safety Zones
6-3-13: Traffic Lanes
6-3-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL SIGNS, DEVICES:
The city council, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic control
signs, signals, and devices as the council may deem necessary to regulate
traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under state law or to guide
or warn traffic. (1986 Code § 20-20)
6-3-2: MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state highway department. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be
uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this title shall be official traffic control devices. (1986 Code § 20-21)
6-3-3: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this title or law, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (1986 Code § 20-22)
6-3-4: SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1986 Code § 20-23)
6-3-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signs exhibiting the word
"Go", "Caution", or "Stop", or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Green Alone Or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at such place prohibits either
such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   C.   Steady Red Alone Or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone, or, while the signal is still red, vehicular traffic may turn
right from the appropriate lane after coming to the required stop, unless
otherwise provided by the municipality in which the signal is located, or
unless hereinafter provided. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right of
way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic
lawfully using the intersection. (1986 Code § 20-24)
      2.   In order to prohibit right turns on the red signal after the
required stop, a municipality must erect clear, concise signs informing drivers
that such turns are prohibited. The state highway department shall specify the
design of the sign to be used for this purpose and it shall be used uniformly
throughout the state. (1986 Code § 20-24; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone or until authorized to do so by pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   E.   Signals Placed At Other Than Intersection: In the event an official
traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made; but, in the absence of any such sign or marking, the
stop shall be made at the signal. (1986 Code § 20-24)
6-3-6: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the wait signal is showing. (1986 Code § 20-25)
6-3-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Red Or Yellow: Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is
used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(1986 Code § 20-26)
6-3-8: PEDESTRIAN ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Whenever a pedestrian actuated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then before
passing the signal or entering the intersection and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1986 Code § 20-27)
6-3-9: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Traffic Control: No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in
view of any highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Commercial Advertising: No person shall place or maintain nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Exception; Directional Information: This section shall not prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   D.   Public Nuisance: Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and the city is hereby empowered to
remove the same without notice. (1986 Code § 20-28)
6-3-10: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (1986 Code § 20-29)
6-3-11: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The city council, by motion or resolution,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same. (1986 Code § 20-30)
   B.   Restrictions On Use: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (1986 Code § 20-31)
6-3-12: CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES:
The city council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadways and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   B.   To establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1986
Code § 20-32)
6-3-13: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Marking: The city council, by motion or resolution, is hereby
authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a
regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Compliance: Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful
for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within
the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (1986 Code § 20-33)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Parking Prohibited In Designated Places
6-4-2: Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
6-4-3: Brakes; Motor Running
6-4-4: Angle Parking; Spaces Marked
6-4-5: Permit For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb
6-4-6: Obstructing Traffic
6-4-7: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-4-8: Parking Time Limits
6-4-9: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours; Truck Parking
6-4-10: One-Way Roadways
6-4-11: Loading And Unloading Zones, Stands
6-4-12: Parking Zones
6-4-13: Handicapped Parking; Public Or Private Property
6-4-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES:
   A.   Prohibited Parking Places: No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or ordinance or the directions or a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection. (1986 Code § 20-106)
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked. (1986 Code § 20-106; amd. 2005 Code)
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the city indicates a different length by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
within a highway underpass.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Violation Prohibited: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as
is unlawful. (1986 Code § 20-106)
   C.   Trucks And Trailers Restricted In Residential Areas: No person, firm or
corporation shall park on any street or alley in the residential section of the
city any truck or trailer larger than a two and one-half (21/2) ton pickup;
provided, that this subsection shall exclude the loading and unloading of such
truck or trailer. (1986 Code § 20-106; amd. 2005 Code)
6-4-2: STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked
with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the right hand curb; provided, that every vehicle stopped or
parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent
curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") to the left hand curb. (1986 Code § 20-100)
6-4-3: BRAKES; MOTOR RUNNING:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (1986 Code
§ 20-101)
6-4-4: ANGLE PARKING; SPACES MARKED:
   A.   Angle Parking:
      1.   The city council, by motion or resolution, shall determine upon what
streets and parts of streets angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have
such streets marked or signed. (1986 Code § 20-102)
      2.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (1986 Code § 20-103)
   B.   Parking In Spaces Marked: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
it within a parking space as thus marked off and not on or over a line
delimiting a space. (1986 Code § 20-104)
6-4-5: PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB:
   A.   Special Permits:
      1.   The city council is authorized to issue special permits to permit
the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
      2.   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
      3.   The city council may revoke such permits at any time.
   B.   Compliance With Terms Of Permit: It is unlawful for any permittee or
other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (1986 Code § 20-105)
6-4-6: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1986 Code § 20-
107)
6-4-7: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things.
   C.   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (1986 Code § 20-108)
6-4-8: PARKING TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The city council, by motion or resolution, is
hereby authorized to establish parking time limits, or to prohibit parking, on
designated streets and parts of streets, by having appropriate signs placed
thereon.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: When such signs are in place, it is unlawful for
any person to park a vehicle in violation thereof. (1986 Code § 20-109)
6-4-9: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS; TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Prohibition; Over Twenty Four Hours: No person shall park a vehicle on
any street or in any alley for a period of time longer than twenty four (24)
hours. (1986 Code § 20-110)
   B.   Trucks In Residential Area: It is unlawful for any person to park a
truck of over two and one-half (21/2) tons on any street or alley in a
residential area of the city. (2005 Code)
   C.   Shorter Periods: This section shall not affect parking limits
established for shorter periods. (1986 Code § 20-110)
6-4-10: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
   A.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs or marks are placed to permit such standing or parking.
   B.   The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to determine
when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any such
one-way roadway and to have signs or marks placed giving notice thereof. (1986
Code § 20-111)
6-4-11: LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES, STANDS:
   A.   Curb Loading Zones Designated:
      1.   The city council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall
have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating
the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the
same authority, such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
      2.   When such a loading zone is established on request of any person,
the city shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to the city
an amount of money estimated by the council to be adequate to reimburse the
city for all costs of establishing and signing the same. (1986 Code § 20-112)
   B.   Passenger Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
(1986 Code § 20-113)
   C.   Freight Curb Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1986 Code § 20-114)
   D.   Public Carrier Stops Designated: The council, by motion or resolution,
is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab
stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such
public streets in such places and in such number as it determines to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public; and every such bus stop, bus
stand, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
By the same authority, such stops and stands may be changed or discontinued.
(1986 Code § 20-115)
   E.   Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      4.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading or passengers. (1986 Code § 20-116)
   F.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone. (1986 Code § 20-117)
6-4-12: PARKING ZONES:
   A.   Designation Of Zones: All parking zones heretofore created and existing
at the time this title goes into effect, are hereby approved. The city council,
by motion or resolution, shall have the power to extend, reduce, abolish, and
create such zones. When their installation has been thus authorized, the mayor
shall have parking meters installed in such areas. Parking in the various zones
shall be at an angle of approximately forty five degrees (45°) with the curb or
parallel to the curb, as the city council or the mayor may determine; and the
mayor shall have appropriate lines marked on the streets to delimit the
individual parking spaces. (1986 Code § 20-118)
   B.   Nonmetered Parking: In lieu of metered parking, it is hereby
established that a vehicle may be left in a parking space within an established
parking zone without charge for a period of up to, but not exceeding, two (2)
hours. (1986 Code § 20-119)
   C.   Parking Violations; Signs:
      1.   Any driver or person in charge of a vehicle who shall park or leave
such vehicle in a parking space within a parking zone in the city for a period
in excess of two (2) hours is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than ten dollars ($10.00).
      2.   Every vehicle parked or left in a parking zone shall be parked at
the approximate angle indicated by the lines marking the space in angled
parking areas, and approximately parallel to the curb in parallel parking
areas; and in either case, it shall be within the space marked by the lines.
Parking a vehicle in any manner contrary to this subsection shall constitute a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the driver or person in charge of the vehicle
shall be subject to a fine of not more than ten dollars ($10.00). (1986 Code §
20-120; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Enforcement By Police Department: The police department shall have
charge of the operation, supervision and control of the parking zones and of
any parking and traffic therein, and shall be responsible for the enforcement
of this chapter and all other ordinances relating to parking zones in the city.
(1986 Code § 20-121)
   E.   Days And Hours Limited: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter or any other ordinance relating to the parking of vehicles within the
city, vehicles may be parked in parking zones for periods in excess of two (2)
hours at any time on Sundays and other days designated as holidays, and on
other days during hours when parking zones are declared as not in operation,
and the two (2) hour maximum limitation upon parking shall not be applicable
during such times. (1986 Code § 20-122)
6-4-13: HANDICAPPED PARKING; PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any parking
space on private property accessible to the public and where the public is
invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area for
parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person, unless such person
has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in said
section or regulations adopted pursuant thereto. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS REGULATED; TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
6-5-1: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-5-2: Right Of Way; Stop And Yield Intersections
6-5-3: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
6-5-4: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
6-5-5: Railroad Grade Crossings
6-5-6: Truck Routes
6-5-7: Emergency Vehicle Runs
6-5-1: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Authority To Sign: Whenever the city council, by motion or resolution,
designates any street or alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley,
the city shall have placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no
such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1986 Code § 20-40)
   B.   Direction Of Traffic: Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys and parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited. (1986 Code
§ 20-41)
   C.   Rotary Traffic Island: A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island
shall be driven only to the right of such island. (1986 Code § 20-42)
6-5-2: RIGHT OF WAY; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Approaching Or Entering Intersection: The driver of a vehicle
approaching an intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection from a different highway; provided, that the driver of
a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal highway approaching an
intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard. (1986 Code § 20-43)
   B.   Turning Left At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle within an
intersection intending to turn to the left shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard; but said
driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required by
this title, may make such left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall yield the right
of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1986 Code § 20-44)
   C.   Through Streets:
      1.   Designated: The city council, by motion or resolution, may designate
any street or part of a street a through street. (1986 Code § 20-45)
      2.   Signs Required: Whenever the council so designates and describes a
through street, the city shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or if
deemed more appropriate at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every
street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection
is controlled at all times by traffic control signals; provided however, that
at the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by
the city council if deemed desirable. (1986 Code § 20-46)
   D.   Hazardous Intersections: The city council, by motion or resolution, is
hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular
hazard exists upon other than through streets and to determine:
      1.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      2.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection as prescribed in subsection G1 of this
section, in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every
place where obedience thereto is required. (1986 Code § 20-47)
   E.   Stop Signs And Yield Signs:
      1.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "Yield" in
letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every
yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or
by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by reflecting elements in
the face of the sign.
      2.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1986 Code § 20-48)
   F.   Entering Stop Intersection:
      1.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard; but
said driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (1986 Code § 20-49)
   G.   Entering Yield Intersection:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience
to such a sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided however, that, if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield right of way.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(1986 Code § 20-50)
   H.   Right Of Way At Intersection: Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop,
slow, warning, or caution signs or signals on two (2) or more intersecting
cross streets, and are approaching so as to enter the intersection at the same
time, where each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle is required to slow, the
vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle
is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. Where one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or
take caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right of way.
Where one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution, the one
required to take caution shall have the right of way. In any event, a vehicle
which has already entered the intersection shall have the right of way over one
which has not so entered the intersection. (1986 Code § 20-51)
6-5-3: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway. (1986 Code § 20-52)
6-5-4: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1986 Code § 20-53)
6-5-5: RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   Obedience To Signal:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1986 Code § 20-54)
   B.   Certain Vehicles To Stop:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
      2.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
a traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1986 Code § 20-55)
6-5-6: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The city council, by motion or resolution, may
prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in general or trucks of
particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through the city. The city shall see that appropriate and
adequate signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles
may follow the routes.
   B.   Duty Of Drivers: When such signs are so erected and in place, the
driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed as
provided above, while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the city and not merely through the city. (1986 Code § 20-123)
6-5-7: EMERGENCY VEHICLE RUNS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive on the streets of the city any emergency
vehicle, including, but not limited to, police patrol cars, fire trucks,
ambulances, sheriff's cars, highway patrol cars and police motorcycles, while
sounding a siren, horn, bell or other noise making device designed to forewarn
the populace of the approach of such vehicle, without first advising the police
department by contacting the police dispatcher on duty of his intention to make
an emergency run and giving the name of the person making the run, the
destination, the route which they intend to travel and the nature of the
emergency. (1986 Code § 20-128)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE CONDITION; EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Vehicles Injurious To Street
6-6-2: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
6-6-3: Equipment
6-6-4: Mufflers, Cutouts
6-6-5: Size, Weight And Load
6-6-6: Inspection Of Vehicles
6-6-7: Jake Brakes
6-6-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREET:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street. (1986 Code § 20-14)
6-6-2: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (1986 Code §
20-15)
6-6-3: EQUIPMENT:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law; and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
city which is not equipped as required by law. It is also unlawful to fail to
use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city. (1986 Code § 20-16)
6-6-4: MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler; and no muffler, cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall
be used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that
exhaust whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (1986 Code § 20-
17)
6-6-5: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (1986 Code § 20-18)
6-6-6: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped, and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair. (1986 Code § 20-19)
6-6-7: JAKE BRAKES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense within the city limits for any
person, firm or corporation to use vehicle or trailer brakes which create an
excessive or unusual noise such as is created by the use of "jake" brakes.
   B.   Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership, who shall
violate any of the provisions hereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs. (Ord. 3197, 11-19-2002)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Subject To Traffic Control Signals
6-7-2: Right Of Way In Crosswalks
6-7-3: Crossing At Right Angles
6-7-4: Yield By Pedestrians
6-7-5: Prohibited Crossing
6-7-6: Railroad Signals
6-7-7: Walking Along Roadways
6-7-8: Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-7-9: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-7-1: SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in
chapter 3 of this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1986
Code § 20-79)
6-7-2: RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Driver Yield To Pedestrian:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply under the conditions stated in
subsection
6-7-4B of this chapter.
   B.   Pedestrian Suddenly Leaving Curb: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a
curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which
is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Vehicle Approaching From Rear Of Stopped Vehicle: Whenever any vehicle
is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any
other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such
stopped vehicle. (1986 Code § 20-80)
   D.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalks: Pedestrians shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks. (1986 Code § 20-81)
6-7-3: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrians shall cross a roadway at any place other than by route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except within
a crosswalk. (1986 Code § 20-82)
6-7-4: YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Crossing At Other Than Crosswalk: Every pedestrian crossing a roadway
at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   B.   Tunnel Or Overhead Crossing: Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a
point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been
provided shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Exception: The foregoing rules in this section have no application
under the conditions stated in section
6-7-5 of this chapter, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places. (1986 Code § 20-83)
6-7-5: PROHIBITED CROSSING:
Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(1986 Code § 20-84)
6-7-6: RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing, gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (1986 Code § 20-85)
6-7-7: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Use Of Sidewalks: Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Use Of Shoulder; Left Side: Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on
the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach
from the opposite direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1986
Code § 20-86)
6-7-8: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1986 Code § 20-87)
6-7-9: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1986 Code § 20-88)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Effect Of Regulations
6-8-2: Traffic Laws Apply
6-8-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-8-4: Riding On Bicycles
6-8-5: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-8-6: Speed
6-8-7: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
6-8-8: Carrying Articles
6-8-9: Parking
6-8-10: Riding On Sidewalk
6-8-11: Lamps And Other Equipment
6-8-12: Motorcycles And Motor Scooters
6-8-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is an offense for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: The parent of any child and the guardian of
any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Application Of Regulations: These regulations applicable to bicycles
shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles subject to the exceptions stated
herein. (1986 Code § 20-89)
6-8-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. (1986 Code § 20-90)
6-8-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Obey Signs And Signals: Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Turn Signs: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey
the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1986 Code § 20-91)
6-8-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Use Of Seat: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Carrying Persons: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1986 Code § 20-92)
6-8-5: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as
near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Multiple Persons Riding: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
roadway. (1986 Code § 20-93)
6-8-6: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1986 Code § 20-94)
6-8-7: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1986 Code § 20-95)
6-8-8: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars. (1986
Code § 20-96)
6-8-9: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1986 Code § 20-97)
6-8-10: RIDING ON SIDEWALK:
   A.   Business District, Riding Prohibited: No person shall ride a bicycle
upon a sidewalk within a business district.
   B.   Signs Prohibiting; Compliance: The city council, by motion or
resolution, is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   C.   Yield To Pedestrians: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1986 Code §
20-98)
6-8-11: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of
a type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear may be used in addition to
the red reflector.
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1986
Code § 20-99; amd. 2005 Code)
6-8-12: MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   Riding Restrictions; Vehicle Specifications:
      1.   Use Of Seat; Carrying Passengers:
         a.   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter, or a motor
bicycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto,
and such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person
ride on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in
which event a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons, or upon another seat firmly attached thereto, at
the rear or side of the operator. (1986 Code § 20-66; amd. 2005 Code)
         b.   No driver of a two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle shall
carry any other person on, upon or within such vehicle on any street, alley or
highway within the city, except as hereafter provided; provided, however, that
if any two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter of twelve
inches (12") or greater shall have either a double seating device with double
footrests or a sidecar attachment providing a separate seat space within such
sidecar attachment for each person riding therein so that such person shall be
seated entirely within the body of said sidecar, then it shall be permissible
for an operator who has attained the age of sixteen (16) years or older to
carry a passenger.
      2.   Demonstration Ride: A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his
employee is excepted from the provisions hereof.
      3.   Riding On Sidewalks: No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden
upon any sidewalk of the city.
      4.   Handlebars: Handlebars on motorcycles and motor scooters shall not
exceed twelve inches (12") in height, measured from the crown or point of
attachment.
      5.   Holding Onto Other Vehicles: No rider of a motorcycle or motor
scooter shall hold onto any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
      6.   Passing Between Lanes: No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter
shall pass other vehicles in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same
direction; authorized emergency vehicles excepted. (1986 Code § 20-124)
      7.   Operation Of Motor Scooters: It is unlawful for any person to
operate a motor driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven
bicycle, on a street in the city during a time when state law prohibits the
operation of such vehicle. (1986 Code § 20-75)
   B.   Speed: No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
motor scooter, or any other similar two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle at
a speed greater than the speed limit provided by ordinance of the city for
automobiles or other motor vehicles nor at a speed greater than thirty five
(35) miles per hour. (1986 Code § 20-125)
   C.   Equipment: The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles
and all motor scooters being operated and driven in the city:
      1.   Rear View Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
      2.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him from foreign objects.
      3.   Brakes; Lamp:
         a.   All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes; one means shall be
effective to apply brakes to the front wheel and one means shall apply the
brakes to the rear wheels.
         b.   All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle, which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred
feet (100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of the service brake.
      4.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
      5.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
      6.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the rear, and such
lights required by this section shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in
motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the street are not
clearly discernible at a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') ahead.
      7.   Headgear: No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall operate
or ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on his head a crash helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by the operators of such vehicle. All crash helmets shall
consist of lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort
the view of the driver.
      8.   Mufflers: It shall be an offense to operate a vehicle covered under
this section with the exhaust system modified so that motor noise is increased
greater than that of the original muffler equipment provided by the
manufacturers of the vehicle. (1986 Code § 20-126)
   D.   Persons Under Sixteen; Hours: The operation of motorcycles, motor
driven cycles, motor scooters, or other similar two (2) or three (3) wheel
motor vehicles within the corporate limits of the city is prohibited for
persons under sixteen (16) years of age between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. (1986 Code § 20-127; amd. 2005
Code)
CHAPTER 9
IMPOUNDING VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Authority To Impound Vehicles
6-9-2: Impounding For Certain Causes
6-9-3: Nuisance; Penalty
6-9-1: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from
a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the police department, or otherwise
maintained by the city, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   A.   Bridge, Viaduct: When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge,
viaduct, or causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes
an obstruction to traffic.
   B.   Disabled Vehicle: When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   C.   Illegally Parked: When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and
is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic. (1986 Code § 20-129)
6-9-2: IMPOUNDING FOR CERTAIN CAUSES:
From and after the effective date hereof, the chief of police shall be
authorized and directed to cause the impoundment, in any public or private
storage yard or place, of vehicles under the following circumstances:
   A.   Private Property With Owner Consent: When such vehicle is parked on
private property without the consent first had and obtained of the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of said private property, and after complaint in
written form signed by said owner, occupant, or person in charge of such
property.
   B.   Blocking Driveway, Alley: When any such vehicle is found parked in
front of, or blocking, any private driveway or public alley.
   C.   Between Curb And Street: When such vehicle is found parked between the
curb of a public street and a private property line, unless permitted under
this city code.
   D.   Delinquent Parking Tickets: When such vehicle has had issued against it
ten (10) or more parking tickets, which parking tickets are delinquent and
unpaid on the date of such impoundment. (1986 Code § 20-130)
6-9-3: NUISANCE; PENALTY:
Any owner of a vehicle found in violation of any provision of section
6-9-2 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of creating a public nuisance,
which said violation is hereby declared to be, and, upon plea of guilty or
conviction therefor, shall be fined the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00), which
shall be in addition to any other penalties lawfully assessed against said
owner. (1986 Code § 20-132; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-10-3: Authority To Impound
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street, highway or
alleyway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors. (1986 Code § 20-133)
6-10-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. (1986 Code § 20-134)
6-10-3: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
The chief of police, or any other member of his department designated by him is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter,
lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such vehicles shall be impounded by the chief of
police or any member of his department. (1986 Code § 20-136; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-2: Obstructing Public Ways
7-1-3: Deposits Of Trash, Weeds
7-1-4: Assemblies Obstructing Public Ways
7-1-5: Drainage On Streets; Pipes And Culverts
7-1-6: Playing On Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-7: Washing Vehicles; Filling Station Drainage
7-1-8: Driving On Newly Paved Streets
7-1-9: Electric Light And Telephone Poles
7-1-10: Penalty
7-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trees Permitted On Residential Streets: Permission is hereby given to
any owner, lessee or occupant of any property abutting on any residential
street to set out and grow any kind of tree for shade purposes between the
property line and the curb line of such property line, such trees to be set on
a line or lines running parallel with the line of such property, and shall not
be set or grown in any other place or in any other manner. (1986 Code § 19-1)
   B.   Decayed Trees Removed: All decayed, dead or broken trees, and all dead,
decayed or broken parts of trees, which are unsightly and liable to fall or be
blown down, and which are standing near any sidewalk in the city, shall be
removed by the owner or occupant or person having charge of the adjacent
property or the property on which same are located. (1986 Code § 19-2)
   C.   Trimming Trees And Shrubbery:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street in the city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalk and
the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part
of the premises adjacent to the sidewalk or any street or alley, in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage
and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
      2.   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the owner,
such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
hereinbefore required of the owner.
      3.   Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of
a street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (1986
Code § 19-3)
      4.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this subsection, after receiving five (5)
days' notice from the superintendent of streets to do so, shall be guilty of an
offense against the city. Every day that the said owner or occupant shall fail,
refuse or neglect to trim said trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the
five (5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense. (1986 Code § 19-4)
   D.   Injuring Trees And Shrubbery: It is unlawful for any person to injure
any tree or shrubbery on a street or alley in the city; provided, that this
shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and
shrubbery. (1986 Code § 19-5)
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Merchandise: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the city any goods,
wares, articles or merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade. (1986
Code § 19-6)
   B.   Interference With Pedestrians Or Traffic: It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the city in any
manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or
obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon. (1986 Code § 19-7)
7-1-3: DEPOSITS OF TRASH, WEEDS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (1986 Code § 19-8)
7-1-4: ASSEMBLIES OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
It is unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct the free use of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or walk by congregating or
assembling thereon. (1986 Code § 19-9)
7-1-5: DRAINAGE ON STREETS; PIPES AND CULVERTS:
   A.   Water Flowing Into Storm Drains:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk or alley within the city, by placing any approach driveway
or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the
natural flow of water into the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to
back any water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter.
      2.   Any such obstruction is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the
street department may abate it at any time, either with or without notice to
owners or occupants of abutting property owners. (1986 Code § 19-10)
   B.   Drainage Tiles; Size, Permit:
      1.   Size: No person shall install or lay any drainage pipe or culvert of
less than twelve inch (12") diameter in the construction, repair, or alteration
of any driveway, sidewalk or other private way, which said drainage pipe or
culvert when installed will be upon public property, with the exception that
ten inch (10") diameter steel or equivalent metal pipe or culverts may be used
in flat areas of the city where adjoining drainage ditches are not sufficiently
deep that any advantage could be gained from larger pipe or culverts.
      2.   Materials: All drainage pipes or culverts so installed in the city
shall be either of steel or equivalent metal or concrete construction.
      3.   Permit: Such person shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk
with the approval of the street superintendent for work to be done. The word
"person" as it appears herein shall mean person, firm, association,
corporation, partnership or other group of persons. (1986 Code § 19-11)
      4.   Inspection: It shall be the duty of the street superintendent to
inspect each and every drainage tile installed within the corporate limits of
the city, which installations are governed by the provisions of this
subsection, and to enforce the provisions thereof. (1986 Code § 19-12)
7-1-6: PLAYING ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main
travelled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance. (1986 Code § 19-13)
7-1-7: WASHING VEHICLES; FILLING STATION DRAINAGE:
   A.   Washing Vehicles On Street: The washing of an automobile or other
vehicle in any street of the city is hereby prohibited. (1986 Code § 19-14)
   B.   Water, Mud Draining Onto Street: No automobile or other vehicle shall
be washed at any place within the city where the water, dirt, mud or other
substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof shall drain into
or upon any street or sidewalk of the city. (1986 Code § 19-15)
   C.   Filling Stations And Other Businesses: It is unlawful for any owner or
operator of a filling station or other place of business, or any agent or
employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or other fluid to flow or
drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley or other
public way. (1986 Code § 19-16)
7-1-8: DRIVING ON NEWLY PAVED STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any animal, or to drive
any vehicle over any newly paved street, venue or alley in the city before such
paving shall have been accepted by the city, and before the same shall have
been formally opened by the city for public travel thereon. Provided, the
contractor or other person having charge of such paving shall erect and
maintain barriers at the end of the streets, avenues and alleys on which such
paving is being done, as well as at all street intersections thereon. (1986
Code § 19-17)
7-1-9: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND TELEPHONE POLES:
   A.   Placement In Alleys: All electric light and telephone poles hereafter
erected, set or reset shall be erected and set in the alleys of the city, and
in no case shall the same be erected or set upon the streets or parkways of the
city. (1986 Code § 19-60)
   B.   Height Of Poles: All telephone poles and electric light poles hereafter
erected or set in the alleys or on the public grounds of the city shall be of
good quality and of sufficient height that the wire strung thereon shall be at
least thirty feet (30') above the level of the ground. (1986 Code § 19-61)
7-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act such provision declares
such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1986 Code § 19-62; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Compliance; Permit Required
7-2-2: Cash Deposit Required
7-2-3: Duty Of Street Superintendent
7-2-4: Replacing Street Surface
7-2-5: Safeguards
7-2-6: Bridge For Pedestrians
7-2-7: Penalty
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall excavate, dig in, alter or change
or interfere with any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, pavement, curbing or
other public ground or the surface thereof, within the limits of the City, for
any purpose whatsoever, unless the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with.
   B.   Permit: Such person shall first obtain a permit from the City Clerk
with the approval of the Street Superintendent for such work to be done. The
word "person" as it appears herein shall mean person, firm, association,
corporation, partnership or other group of persons. (1986 Code § 19-18)
7-2-2: CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Deposit Required; Amount:
      1.   It is hereby required of all persons, before the issuance of a
permit for doing of any such work as described in section
7-2-1 of this chapter, that they deposit with the City Clerk in cash, a sum to
cover the cost of replacement and repair of any such street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, pavement, or other public ground of the City and the surface thereof
in the same condition as the same was prior to the time of doing any work as
described in section
7-2-1 of this chapter. (1986 Code § 19-19)
      2.   The amount of such cash deposit shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1986 Code § 19-19; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Authority To Alter Deposit Amount: Provided, however, that the amount
of the cash deposit above required is for normal or ordinary excavations and
the Street Superintendent may make adjustments in the amount of such cash
deposit when conditions, including width or area of excavation, are such that
the cost of making repairs and replacements of such excavations or alterations,
including surfaces, shall be less than or greater than the cost for the usual,
normal or ordinary excavations or alterations. (1986 Code § 19-19)
7-2-3: DUTY OF STREET SUPERINTENDENT:
All such street excavation work shall be done under the supervision of the
Street Superintendent. The cash or bond shall be returned, upon performance of
the work as herein required, in a reasonable time. The Street Superintendent
shall utilize such portion of the cash deposit or bond as may be necessary for
the purpose of restoring said places to their former condition. (1986 Code §
19-22)
7-2-4: REPLACING STREET SURFACE:
All excavations conducted on City property or easements must be conducted under
the supervision of a properly licensed plumbing contractor and conform to the
following minimum standards:
   A.   All excavated material (i.e., spoil material) must be removed from the
work site.
   B.   All excavations must be backfilled from the bottom thereof to ground
level with aggregate base rock (i.e., less than 3/4 inch size rock or gravel)
at the conclusion of the excavation operation, after which such fill material
shall be firmly tamped, and the surface of any affected street, avenue or alley
returned to a durable, smooth and serviceable condition as good or better than
before such work was done, with such work to be conducted under the supervision
of the Street Commissioner.
   C.   The Vinita Street Commissioner (918) 256-6468 must be contacted prior
to all excavations so as to enable him to determine in advance whether the
amount of the cash deposit as required under section
7-2-2 of this chapter, is adequate to cover any costs to the City for manpower
or resources.
Failure to comply with the minimum standards set forth hereinabove will result
in suspension of all permit privileges authorizing operations within the City
limits of the City of Vinita as follows:
 
First violation  30 day suspension of all licenses and privileges to conduct
                 operations within the City of Vinita
Second violation 90 day suspension of all license and permit privileges to
                 conduct operations within the City of Vinita
Third violation  1 year suspension of all license and permit privileges to
                 conduct operations within the City of Vinita
 
Any plumbing contractor found to be operating in the City of Vinita in the
absence of valid licenses as required by both the State of Oklahoma and the
City of Vinita, will be reported to the State regulators. (Ord. 3675, 3-6-2018)
7-2-5: SAFEGUARDS:
It is hereby made the duty of any person, during any excavation, to safely
guard the public against any and all accidents liable to occur as a result of
the same, by providing suitable and adequate warning signs, lights, safeguards,
railings, and guard devices around any such excavations, ditches, or trenches.
From sunset to sunrise, such person shall maintain a sufficient number of red
lights or torches on each side of such excavations, trenches, or ditches as is
necessary to give adequate and suitable warning of danger. (1986 Code § 19-21)
7-2-6: BRIDGE FOR PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Bridge Required: Any person authorized to do any work described in this
chapter must, at the time of the excavation and until the place is restored to
its original condition, construct and maintain an appropriate bridge across
said work for the passage of pedestrians at all times. At night such persons
shall place and maintain a red light on each side of said bridge to warn the
public, and said bridge shall have banisters or guard rails, if any ditch is
left open on either side. Torches may be used in place of the red lights herein
required. (1986 Code § 19-23)
   B.   Red Lights Placed Along Ditch: In all cases where the ditch or
excavation runs parallel with the street either to the sidewalk in the street
or a driveway, a red light shall be placed not less than twenty five feet (25')
apart all along said ditch. Said lights shall be maintained from sunset until
sunrise. (1986 Code § 19-24)
7-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
7-1-10 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; STREET SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Applicability Of Regulations
7-3-2: Specifications Furnished By Engineer
7-3-3: Keeping Sidewalks In Repair
7-3-4: Payment Of Costs
7-3-5: Construction, Line And Grade
7-3-6: Excavations
7-3-7: Embankment
7-3-8: Materials; Mixing
7-3-9: Finish
7-3-10: Sidewalk And Curbing Requirements
7-3-11: Asphaltic Concrete Specifications
7-3-12: Portland Cement Specifications
7-3-13: Sidewalks Laid In Violation Of Chapter
7-3-14: Condemnation By Council
7-3-15: Penalty
7-3-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
Whenever the city council shall order any sidewalk to be constructed or
repaired, the same shall be constructed or repaired in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1986 Code § 19-47)
7-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS FURNISHED BY ENGINEER:
In any and all cases where this chapter fails to provide proper specifications
for a sidewalk, areas, curbing and guttering, the city engineer shall furnish
specifications which shall be approved by the mayor and city council. (1986
Code § 19-53; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-3: KEEPING SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR:
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning property in
the city to keep the sidewalk adjoining his lot or lots in repair and in a safe
condition for the public use and travel and to not permit or suffer the same to
become broken, unsafe or out of repair. (1986 Code § 19-57)
7-3-4: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Pavement: The entire walk and excavation or embankment to be paid for
will be paid for as per contract to be entered into with the city. (1986 Code §
19-36)
   B.   Extra Work: Any extra work required by the city engineer shall a paid
for at the rate of the actual cost plus fifteen percent (15%) thereof. (1986
Code § 19-37; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-5: CONSTRUCTION, LINE AND GRADE:
   A.   Construction; Supervision: All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and private
crossings shall be constructed of cement, asphalt or other substance or
material that will make and produce a hard, smooth surface, and be constructed
under the supervision of the street superintendent of the city. (1986 Code §
19-25)
   B.   Line And Grade: All work shall be completed in a workmanlike manner
according to lines and grades as given by the city engineer, and work shall be
commenced and carried on at a point or points designated by said engineer.
(1986 Code § 19-26)
7-3-6: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Manner Of Making Excavations; Classifications: Excavations shall be
made to a point exactly four inches (4") below the finished grade of the
sidewalk. After excavations are made, the surface shall be tamped thoroughly,
with a tamper that shall weigh not less than twenty (20) pounds and be not less
than twelve inches (12") square, to the satisfaction of the engineer. All
excavations shall be measured and estimated, by the cubic yards, under the
heads in subsections A1 through A3 of this section, as follows: (1986 Code §
19-27)
      1.   Class A: Class A shall include all ordinary clays, loams, sands,
loose gravel, and earthly materials, or earth containing loose stones or
boulders intermixed, which do not exceed three (3) cubic feet in size. (1986
Code § 19-28)
      2.   Class B: Class B shall include all stones, boulders and detached
pieces of rock lying in separate masses more than three (3) cubic feet and less
than one cubic yard; also slate, shale, soapstone, cemented gravel, coarse
boulders in gravel or hardpan. (1986 Code § 19-29)
      3.   Class C: Class C shall include all pieces of rock or boulders one
cubic yard or more in contents and all solid masses of solid, well defined
ledges of stone or masses of rock. (1986 Code § 19-30)
   B.   Surplus Materials: All excavating materials not used in the work shall
be deposited in such a place and spread in such a manner as the city engineer
may direct. The maximum length of free haul shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500'). Excavating material not wanted by the city or property
owner shall be disposed of by the contractor. Cuts shall have a width of seven
feet (7') at the bottom and have a slope of one foot (1') horizontal to one
foot (1') vertical. (1986 Code § 19-31)
7-3-7: EMBANKMENT:
Where a fill is necessary to bring the surface to subgrade, the same shall be
made of earth or other material to be furnished by the contractor, and the fill
shall be compact in six inch (6") layers flushing, if necessary, to secure a
solid foundation. The embankment shall have a width of seven feet (7') at the
top and a slope of one and one-half feet (11/2') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical. (1986 Code § 19-32)
7-3-8: MATERIALS; MIXING:
The following rules shall govern the kinds of material to be used in sidewalks
and the mixing of the same:
   A.   Cement: Any brand of Portland cement fulfilling the requirements
suggested by the American Society for Testing Materials may be used.
   B.   Sand: The sand shall be clean and sharp.
   C.   Chat, Stone Or Gravel: The chat, broken stone or gravel shall be clean
and hard and of such dimensions that it will pass through a two inch (2") ring.
   D.   Mixing Material: Upon the properly prepared subgrade shall be placed a
concrete base three and one-half inches (31/2") thick, composed of one volume
of cement and five (5) volumes of aggregate, the aggregate being composed of
three (3) volumes of chat, broken stone or gravel; the sand shall be buried so
as to just fill the voids in the rock. The cement and aggregate shall be
thoroughly mixed dry by shoveling and turning over not less than twice; water
shall be added and the mixture again turned twice or more to secure a perfect
mass, or in lieu thereof same may be turned and mixed in any concrete mixing
machine. The mass shall be deposited in well constructed forms and thoroughly
packed until free mortar flushes over all parts of the surface and the surface
is exactly one-half inch (1/2") below the finished grade of the walk. No
concrete that has been mixed over forty (40) minutes shall be used. (1986 Code
§ 19-33)
7-3-9: FINISH:
Immediately after the base has been completed, there shall be placed thereon a
wearing surface consisting of one-half inch (1/2") of mortar composed of one
volume of portland cement and one and one-half (11/2) volumes of clean sand
with sufficient water to make mortar stiff. This shall be brought to grade with
a straight edge and then thoroughly compacted by troweling it three (3) times
or more. No patches will be allowed, and in finishing the walk it shall be cut
in five foot (5') or six foot (6') sections. The finished walk shall be
protected from the sun and wind by a moist cover for at least twenty four (24)
hours after its completion; the walk shall also be protected from freezing in
cold weather. The walk shall not be thrown open to travel for at least three
(3) days after its completion, and the contractor shall, at his own expense,
protect the walk from injury until it has been accepted by the city. (1986 Code
§ 19-34)
7-3-10: SIDEWALK AND CURBING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Walk Reinforced For Driveway: Walks across driveways shall be
reinforced, which shall consist of one inch (1") finished coat or wearing
surface, laid upon a seven inch (7") concrete base prepared as heretofore
specified. (1986 Code § 19-35)
   B.   Expansion Joints: All grooved joints shall be made not to exceed four
feet (4'), one 1-inch expansion joint shall be made every fifty feet (50') and
also where walks abut curb or old walk. (1986 Code § 19-38)
   C.   Grade: All sidewalks, curbing and guttering shall be constructed upon
grades to be furnished by the city engineer. (1986 Code § 19-39)
   D.   Business And Residential Streets:
      1.   Business: All sidewalks laid and constructed on any business street
shall be twelve feet (12') wide, including curbing, and shall adjoin the
abutting property line. (1986 Code § 19-40)
      2.   Residential: All sidewalks laid and constructed on any residential
street shall be four feet (4') wide, the inside of which shall be three feet
(3') from the line of the property abutting such sidewalk. (1986 Code § 19-41)
      3.   Incline: All sidewalks constructed on the business streets shall
have an incline from the abutting property line to the outside of curb of two
inches (2"), and all sidewalks on residential streets shall be one inch (1")
higher next to the property line. (1986 Code § 19-42)
   E.   Curbing:
      1.   All curbing shall be not less in size than five inches (5") on top
and leveled one inch (1") to the foot in height, and shall not be less than one
foot (1') in the ground from the bottom of the gutter, and in no case less than
one foot (1') in width, and the top of said curb shall be leveled at the outer
edge one-fourth inch (1/4"). (1986 Code § 19-43)
      2.   On all residential streets eighty feet (80') wide or more, the
curbing shall be placed so that the outer edge thereof will be twenty feet
(20') from the abutting property line, and on all residential streets less than
eighty feet (80') in width, the curbing shall adjoin the sidewalk on the
outside. (1986 Code § 19-44)
   F.   Gutters: All gutters shall be two and one-half feet (21/2') wide, and
united to the adjoining curbing and shall have an incline of six inches (6")
from the outside line to the curbing. (1986 Code § 19-45)
   G.   Corner Lots; Sidewalks Continue To Curb: All sidewalks on corner lots
shall continue to the curb line. (1986 Code § 19-46)
   H.   Railings: All railing around areas shall be of one and one-half inch
(11/2") gas pipe with posts not less than three feet (3') high and not more
than five feet (5') apart. (1986 Code § 19-48)
   I.   Sidewalks Over Areas: All sidewalks built over areas or open spaces
shall be constructed with suitable supports by walls, arches, or iron beams
according to specifications to be approved by city engineer. (1986 Code § 19-
49)
   J.   Manholes: All manholes through sidewalks shall be fitted with iron
covers. (1986 Code § 19-50)
   K.   Area Ways In Sidewalks: All area ways in sidewalks not otherwise
provided for herein shall be protected by iron railings securely fastened in a
workmanlike manner. (1986 Code § 19-51)
7-3-11: ASPHALTIC CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Roadbed:
      1.   The roadbed shall be shaped and crowned (the full width) with a
blade grader and shall have a crown of at least one-fourth inch (1/4") fall per
foot and a one inch (1") fall per twenty (20) lineal feet longitudinally.
      2.   All exposed rock larger than three inches (3") and any unstable soil
shall be removed and replaced with suitable material.
      3.   The roadbed shall be firmly compacted to conform to the typical
cross section as shown on the plans or the elevation established by the
engineer or inspector.
      4.   The finished road shall be twenty seven feet two inches (27'2") wide
including outside of curb to outside of curb.
   B.   Subbase:
      1.   The subbase material shall be a type A crushed limestone, passing a
one and one-half inch (11/2") sieve by weight, eighty percent (80%) to one
hundred percent (100%).
      2.   The subbase material shall be spread uniformly and in sufficient
quantities to conform to the required depth.
      3.   The subbase material shall be rolled and sprinkled to secure
thorough compaction. Rolling shall be done with a pneumatic type roller, a
three (3) wheeled roller, or a tandem roller.
      4.   Rolling shall continue until the subbase is compacted to not less
than ninety five percent (95%) of standard proctor density and shall be the
following thicknesses: four inches (4") for residential streets, six inches
(6") for collector streets and eight inches (8") for arterial streets.
   C.   Asphalt Cover Base:
      1.   Before applying asphalt cover base, the subbase shall be cleaned and
a tack coat of asphaltic cement cut back with thirty five percent (35%) to
sixty five percent (65%) naphtha or white gasoline and applied over the surface
with an approved sprayer at the rate of one-tenth (1/10) gallon per square yard
of surface.
      2.   Temperature in the shade at which asphaltic cement may be laid shall
be at no time when there is frost in the foundation course, thirty five degrees
Fahrenheit (35°F) if rising or forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) if falling.
      3.   The asphaltic cement shall be heated at the paving plant to a
temperature of two hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (250°F) to three hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (300°F) and shall be mixed with the aggregates at a rate of
five and one-half (0.055) to six and one-half (0.065) percent by weight of
total mix.
      4.   The mineral aggregates shall be a type A crushed limestone, passing
a one inch (1") sieve by weight one hundred percent (100%) and shall be heated
at the paving plant so that when delivered to the mixer they shall be at as low
a temperature as is consistent with proper mixing and laying and in no case to
exceed three hundred twenty five degrees Fahrenheit (325°F).
      5.   The mixture shall be delivered to the work in tight vehicles with
metal bottoms previously cleaned of all foreign materials.
      6.   The asphaltic mixture shall be spread by means of a mechanical self-
powered paver and all fat spots removed and replaced immediately after any
course is screeded and before any rolling is done.
      7.   Spreading shall be as continuous as possible and as soon as it will
bear the rollers without undue displacement, shall be uniformly compacted with
steel wheel and self-propelled pneumatic rollers to a thickness of two and one-
half inches (21/2"). This rolling shall continue in such a manner and
sufficient number of times as to eliminate all roller marks and until a
compacted density of not less than ninety five percent (95%) of the laboratory
test has been achieved.
      8.   No traffic shall be permitted on the asphaltic pavement until final
rolling has been made.
   D.   Joints: Longitudinal and transverse joints shall be well bonded and
sealed. For joints between old and new pavements or between successive days'
work (except when a canvas-rope joint is used for transverse joints), the edge
of the previously laid course shall be cut back to its full depth and given a
tack coat and emulsified asphalt before placing the mixture against them.
   E.   Integral Curb:
      1.   The curb shall be constructed on the outside edge of the pavement in
a monolithic manner with the gutter or pavement and in conformity with the
lines, grades and dimensions as shown on the plans or as directed by the
engineer or inspector.
      2.   If the curb is to be constructed of asphaltic cement, it shall be
laid with a mechanical machine designed and built for this type of curb.
      3.   If the curb is to be constructed of Portland cement concrete, it
shall be constructed in accordance with specifications as prescribed for
Portland cement streets, curbs and gutters. (See specifications on file in the
office of the city engineer and inspector.)
      4.   If the combined curb and gutter is a separate installation from the
street, the edge of the gutter shall be cleaned, given a tack coat and a
premoulded type of joint shall be bonded to the edge before laying the asphalt
mixture, against the concrete gutter.
      5.   If desired, the concrete gutter may be left two inches (2") lower
than the top of the finished asphalt pavement and when the asphaltic concrete
pavement is laid, the mixture can be permitted to extend across the top of the
gutter and bonded to the curb. Gutter shall have a slope toward the curb of at
least one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot.
   F.   Leveling Or Surfacing:
      1.   The mineral aggregates for this course shall be type C crushed
limestone, passing a three-eights inch (3/8") sieve by weight eighty percent
(80%) to one hundred percent (100%) and shall be heated at the paving plant so
that when delivered to the mixer they shall be at as low a temperature as is
consistent with proper mixing and laying and in no case to exceed three hundred
twenty five degrees Fahrenheit (325°F).
      2.   The asphaltic cement shall be heated at the paving plant to a
temperature of two hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (250°F) to three hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (300°F) and shall be mixed with the aggregates at a rate of
five and one-half (0.055) to six and one-half (0.065) percent by weight of the
total mix.
      3.   Temperature in the shade at which asphaltic cement may be laid shall
be thirty five degrees Fahrenheit (35°F) if rising or forty degrees Fahrenheit
(40°F) if falling and at no time when there is frost in the foundation course.
      4.   The mixture shall be delivered to the work in tight vehicles with
metal bottoms previously cleaned of all foreign materials and shall be spread
by means of a mechanical self-powered paver.
      5.   All fat spots shall be removed and replaced immediately after any
course is screeded and before any rolling is started.
      6.   Spreading shall be as continuous as possible and as soon as it will
bear the rollers without undue displacement, shall be uniformly compacted with
steel wheel and self-propelled pneumatic rollers to a thickness of one and one-
half inches (11/2").
      7.   Rolling shall continue in such a manner and sufficient number of
times as to eliminate all roller marks and until compacted to a density of not
less than ninety five percent (95%) of the laboratory test for this identical
mixture.
      8.   No traffic shall be permitted on the asphaltic pavement until final
rolling has been made.
   G.   Drawings: A cross section drawing shall be furnished the contractor
which will be in accordance with specifications. (1986 Code § 19-58)
7-3-12: PORTLAND CEMENT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Subgrade:
      1.   Subgrade soils shall be of uniform materials and density to provide
satisfactory pavement performance. It shall be thoroughly compacted with
suitable equipment so as to have uniform density at moisture contents of not
less than standard optimum (AASHOT98).
 
Types of soil
 5p-A Parsons Silt loam 0-1% Slopes
 M5-A Taloka  Silt loam 0-1% Slopes
 6p-B Dennis  Silt loam 1-3% Slopes
 6p-C Dennis  Silt loam 3-5% Slopes
 7p-C Bates   Loam      3-5% Slopes
 
      2.   Topsoil and loose material shall be removed to a depth of at least
twelve inches (12").
      3.   Base shall be firm and free of mud and soft spots.
      4.   All soft spots shall be removed and compacted in six inch (6")
layers with like materials to a density of the adjacent base.
      5.   All rocks three inches (3") in diameter or larger shall be removed
from base to a depth of six inches (6") and the hold compacted as per
subsection A4 of this section.
      6.   Special care must be taken in backfilling water, gas, sewer and
other drainage facilities and other permanent structures in the paved area.
They must be backfilled in six inch (6") layers, with a like material and
compacted to a density comparable to the adjacent base.
      7.   Prepared subgrade or base will be restricted to all vehicle traffic.
   B.   Design:
      1.   Thickness: The thickness shall be determined by its use, i.e.: a)
local residential streets, six inches (6"); b) collector streets, seven inches
(7"); and c) major arterial system, eight inches (8").
      2.   Width: The minimum width in two (2) lane streets, except in unusual
cases, will be twenty seven feet two inches (27'2") including curb. It must
have a traverse slope of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot of width and one inch
(1") fall per twenty feet (20') longitudinally. In four (4) lane streets, there
shall be allowed ten feet (10') to thirteen feet seven inches (13'7") for each
traffic lane. Lane widths in excess of thirteen feet seven inches (13'7") will
not be allowed.
      3.   Mix: Water cement ratio 5.5:6.0.
 
Water            45.8 or 33 gallons
Cement           564 pounds          Retained 3/4 inch, not to exceed 11/
Sand             1,200 pounds        2 inches
Gravel           2,000 pounds
Total dry weight 3,809.8 pounds
 
   C.   Concrete Quality:
      1.   Strength: The critical stresses in concrete pavement are flexural,
expressed in modulus of rupture; under average conditions the modulus of
rupture (3 point loading) will not be less than five hundred fifty (550) psi at
twenty eight (28) days. The cement factor will be not less than six (6) bags
per yard of concrete.
      2.   Entrained Air: In frost affected areas, concrete pavements are
subjected to many cycles of freezing and thawing and to the application of de-
icing agents, thus it is essential to have a mix with a low water-cement ratio,
an adequate cement factor and sufficient quantities of entrained air. The
amount of entrained air will vary with the maximum aggregate size, i.e.:
 
Maximum Size Aggregate Entrained Air
2 2/3, 2, 21/2         5 #1
3/4, 1                 6 #1
3/8, 1/2               7 #1
 
For the following reasons, entrained air should be incorporated into the mix
design for all concrete pavements:
         a.   Makes the hardened concrete more weather resistant.
         b.   Prevents segregation.
         c.   Increases workability.
         d.   Reduces bleeding.
         e.   Reduces the amount of water required for workability.
      3.   Water: The amount of mixing water also has a critical influence on
durability and weather resistance of hardened concrete. The least amount of
mixing water with a given cement content that will produce a plastic and
workable mix will result in the greatest durability of the hardened concrete.
The sump as measured in a standard slum core should never exceed three inches
(3") for hand finished concrete and two inches (2") to two and one-half inches
(21/2") for machine finished concrete. With air entrained concrete, the water-
cement ratio will not exceed five and one-half (51/2) gallons of water per
ninety four (94) pound bag of cement. The cement content will be not less than
six (6) bags per cubic yard.
      4.   Drying Agents: The use of drying agents (calcium chloride) will not
be permitted.
      5.   Temperatures:
         a.   The placement of concrete on frozen ground will not be permitted.
         b.   Air temperatures should be above freezing, thirty two degrees
(32°) and rising.
         c.   The concrete temperature should be at least forty degrees (40°)
or higher.
         d.   After placement, concrete will be protected against sudden drops
in temperature until it has obtained its initial set, four (4) days. In hot
summer time, especially when the ambient temperature exceeds one hundred
degrees (100°), it should be protected against excessive heat. (See "curing",
subsection C8 of this section.)
      6.   Placement: Concrete will not be placed until the following items
have been checked and approved by the inspector:
         a.   Base or subgrade.
         b.   Forms.
         c.   Grade and lines.
            (1)   One-fourth inch (1/4") to one foot (1') traversely.
            (2)   One inch (1") to twenty feet (20') longitudinally.
         d.   Temperatures.
         e.   Mix design (water-cement ratio and entrained air content).
      7.   Vibration: The concrete should be placed in an orderly and
progressive manner, using vibrations for compaction and distribution and screed
vibration for surface leveling and grading.
      8.   Curing: After finishing, the hardened concrete will be properly
cured by covering with impervious paper, burlap, cotton mats, sand canvas or
hay and kept continuously wet for at least seven (7) days. An approved curing
compound may be used and applied immediately after finishing. It should be used
in ample quantity to completely cover all exposed surfaces.
      9.   Travel And Use: Freshly poured concrete will be restricted to
traffic as follows:
         a.   Water cure - foot traffic, twenty four (24) hours.
         b.   Curing compounds - foot traffic, seven (7) days.
         c.   All concrete - vehicle traffic, twenty one (21) days.
   D.   Joints:
      1.   Longitudinal Joints: These joints shall be spaced to coincide with
lane markings from ten foot (10') to thirteen foot seven inch (13'7")
intervals. Longitudinal joints will be keyed and the top one-fourth inch (1/4")
by one inch (1") recessed and filled with hot mix joint sealer (type E joint).
      2.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints will be placed at distances no
greater than six hundred feet (600') and at all street intersections. One inch
(1") premold may be used with a two inch (2") by five foot (5') thickened base
(type A joint) , or with normal base one inch (1") premold expansion joint
filler and three-fourths inch (3/4") by fifteen inch (15") dowel bars at twelve
inch (12") center (type A alternate joint). Type A expansion joint will be used
around all manholes and catch basins. The top one-fourth inch (1/4") by one
inch (1") will be filled with hot mix joint sealer.
      3.   Traverse Contraction Joints: Traverse contraction joints may be
sawed one-fourth (1/4) of pavement thickness or they may be formed during
construction by insertion of preformed material one-eighth inch (1/8") to one-
fourth inch (1/4") to a depth of one-fourth (1/4) of the thickness of the slab
(type C joint). After sawing, they shall be filled with hot mix joint sealer.
Spacing of the traverse joints will depend on the type aggregate used and
subgrade conditions.
         a.   Crushed granite or limestone - twenty foot (20') intervals.
         b.   Siliceous gravel - sixteen foot (16') intervals.
         c.   Gravel smaller than three-fourths inch (3/4") - sixteen foot
(16') intervals.
         d.   A traverse construction joint made by the ending of a day's pour
will be similar to the type D joint and/or type E joint. It should be
bulkheaded, recessed one-fourth inch (1/4") by one inch (1") for hot mix joint
sealer and contain five-eighths inch (5/8") round, smooth dowel bars fifteen
inches (15") long at twelve inch (12") centers.
(Type D traverse construction joints)
(Type E tied traverse construction joints)
      4.   Curbs And Gutters: An integral curb will be poured monolithically
with the pavement in a one step operation in which all concrete work is done
simultaneously. The gutter flow line should be pretested before the final set
of the concrete. This will permit correction of high spots or pockets where
surface water may collect.
      5.   Utilities: Water, gas, electric lines and storm sewers will be laid
outside the proposed curb line. When any of the above items cross the base or
subgrade under the slab, they will be backfilled and compacted with a like
material in six inch (6") layers to a density equal to the adjacent subgrade.
   E.   Specifications Adopted By Reference: The specifications in section
7-3-2 of this chapter are adopted from the Portland Cement Association's
"Design For Concrete Pavements For City Streets" and "Oklahoma Highway
Specifications". All reference to types of joint construction may be found in
the Portland cement manual. (1986 Code § 19-59)
7-3-13: SIDEWALKS LAID IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Removal Of Sidewalk; Laying By City; Costs: Any sidewalk heretofore
constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed contrary to the provisions
of this chapter may be required by the mayor and city council to be taken up by
the city engineer and a proper sidewalk constructed to conform to the
requirements of this chapter, under the supervision and direction of the city
engineer, and the cost thereof shall be taxed against the abutting lot or lots
as provided by the laws of this state. (1986 Code § 19-52)
   B.   Separate Offense: Every day the owner, contractor or builder shall lay
or construct, or attempt to lay or construct, any sidewalk, curb or gutter in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. (1986 Code § 19-55)
7-3-14: CONDEMNATION BY COUNCIL:
The city council may, at any time by resolution, condemn any portion of any
defective sidewalk when, in its judgment, it shall be deemed necessary, and
provide for the construction of a new sidewalk in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1986 Code § 19-54)
7-3-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
7-1-10 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Operation By City
7-4-2: Cemetery Superintendent
7-4-3: Cemetery Care Fund
7-4-4: Payment Of Fees
7-4-5: Issuance Of Burial Permits
7-4-6: Record Of Lot Sales
7-4-7: Vaults
7-4-8: Monuments, Improvements And Embellishments
7-4-9: Coping, Walk Or Wall Prohibited
7-4-10: Removal Of Wreaths, Decorations
7-4-11: Driving Vehicles In Cemetery
7-4-12: Penalty
7-4-1: OPERATION BY CITY:
The city shall operate and maintain the Fairview Cemetery and shall fix the
rules and regulations for the management and operating of same. (1986 Code § 6-
1)
7-4-2: CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall appoint some qualified person to the
office of cemetery superintendent with the consent of the city council, who
shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council. (1986 Code § 6-2)
   B.   Duties: The cemetery superintendent shall perform the following duties:
      1.   To care for and protect the cemetery grounds and their
appurtenances.
      2.   To enforce the rules and regulations of the city pertaining to the
cemetery.
      3.   To superintend the repairs and construction of improvements and the
maintenance of all permanent improvements and embellishments of any kind which
tend to beautify such cemetery or preserve it permanently as a place of burial
for the human dead. (1986 Code § 6-3)
7-4-3: CEMETERY CARE FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There shall be a cemetery care fund for the
maintenance and improvement of the cemetery owned and operated by the city in
accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 26-109, including any current
supplement. Twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) of all monies received from the
sale of lots and interments shall be segregated and set aside in this permanent
fund. The cemetery care fund shall be expended for purchasing lands for
cemeteries and for making capital improvements, if necessary. The balance of
the fund shall be invested in the manner provided by law for the investment of
municipal funds. The interest from the investments shall be used for the same
purposes as the principal or in improving, caring for, and embellishing the
lots, walks, drives, parks, and other necessary improvements on such
cemeteries. (Ord. 3506, 9-6-2011)
7-4-4: PAYMENT OF FEES:
   A.   Price Of Lots: The price of lots in the city cemetery shall be
established by motion or resolution of the city council. (1986 Code § 6-6)
   B.   Interment Fee: The interment fee for opening and closing graves in the
city cemetery shall be established by motion or resolution of the city council.
(1986 Code § 6-7)
   C.   Payment Of Fee Required:
      1.   No deed for any cemetery lot shall be issued, no grave opened nor
shall any monument be set, located or placed until and unless the requisite
price, fee, or charge therefor has been paid in full and in cash to the
appropriate city officer, and the proper permit issued. (1986 Code § 6-8)
      2.   In no case shall any person dig any grave, or inter any human body
in or upon any lot owned by the city in the cemetery until the city shall have
received the full price to be paid for the lot or lots in or upon which said
grave or interment is to be made, and until a permit is issued by the city
clerk, as provided for in section
7-4-5 of this chapter. (1986 Code § 6-11)
   D.   Sale And Conveyance Of Lots: All lots in the city cemetery shall be
sold at such prices as the mayor and city council may from time to time adopt
and establish. All lots sold therein shall be conveyed by certificate to be
issued by the city clerk and signed by the mayor and countersigned by said
clerk, under the seal of the city, which certificate shall show the lot or lots
described by numbers as shown upon the plat of the cemetery, the price paid, to
whom issued who shall be the owner, and date of issuance. (1986 Code § 6-10)
7-4-5: ISSUANCE OF BURIAL PERMITS:
The city clerk shall have the power and authority to contract and sell any lot
or lots in the cemetery, at the price or prices fixed and established by the
mayor and city council, and to issue permits for the burial of the human dead
in the cemetery, provided such permits shall not be issued until all monies and
charges due the city shall have been paid. (1986 Code § 6-12)
7-4-6: RECORD OF LOT SALES:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep a record, in a well bound book
to be kept for that purpose, of all sales of lots in the cemetery, which record
shall show the number and location of the lot or lots sold, the date of sale,
to whom sold, and the amount paid for each lot or lots, and the name of the
person whose body is interred in the cemetery. (1986 Code § 6-13)
7-4-7: VAULTS:
All burials at Fairview Cemetery shall be made in outside containers which are
made of natural stone, or of metal, or of reinforced concrete, or of an equal
strength synthetic product. All such containers must be made and installed as
to prevent their collapse while in use, therefore eliminating sunken graves.
(1986 Code § 6-17)
7-4-8: MONUMENTS, IMPROVEMENTS AND EMBELLISHMENTS:
The erection of monuments, tombstones, filling of graves, improving, adorning
and embellishing graves, or the marking thereof by private parties in the
cemetery shall be done under the supervision of the superintendent and not
otherwise, and no improvement shall be made and no erection of monuments or
marking of graves be had until all charges owing to the city on said lot or
lots to be improved shall have been fully paid. (1986 Code § 6-14)
7-4-9: COPING, WALK OR WALL PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install
any coping, walk or wall in the city cemetery; however, this prohibition shall
not apply to the city where such improvements are necessary for the public good
in maintaining the cemetery. (1986 Code § 6-9)
7-4-10: REMOVAL OF WREATHS, DECORATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove wreaths, flowers, potted plants
or other decorations, whether the same be live or artificial, placed on or near
graves in any cemetery owned, operated or maintained by the city other than the
persons placing such wreaths, flowers, potted plants or other decorations on or
near such graves or their agents or authorized representatives; provided
however, that the city, its agents, representatives or employees may, one week
following Memorial Day or other occasion when graves in the cemetery may be
decorated, remove and dispose of such decorations other than permanent
plantings and potted flowers or plants placed upon grave markers in a position
where they do not interfere with the mowing of the cemetery. (1986 Code § 6-16)
7-4-11: DRIVING VEHICLES IN CEMETERY:
All vehicles driven into the cemetery shall be subject to the orders and
directions of the superintendent or other authorized officer in charge of the
cemetery. (1986 Code § 6-15)
7-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such provision
declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1986 Code § 6-18; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Rules And Regulations
7-5-2: Determination Of Fees
7-5-3: Park Curfew; Overnight Camping
7-5-4: Unlawful Use Of Vehicles In Park
7-5-5: Penalty
7-5-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with fishing and fishing privileges, hunting and hunting
privileges, boating and boating privileges, and swimming, and the use of all
other recreational facilities owned or operated by the city. (1986 Code § 15-1)
7-5-2: DETERMINATION OF FEES:
The city shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such recreational privileges on any property or facility for recreational
purpose owned or operated by the city. (1986 Code § 15-2)
7-5-3: PARK CURFEW; OVERNIGHT CAMPING:
   A.   Closing Hours For Public Parks:
      1.   All public parks within the city limits of Vinita, Oklahoma, shall
be closed to the public from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. each day; provided that the parks department may post more restrictive
hours or extend the hours at any or all parks until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
      2.   No person shall go upon or remain upon any public park at any time
the park is closed, whether such closing occurs as the result of the time set
forth in this section or as a result of the posting performed by the parks
department. It shall not be a violation of this section for a person to go upon
or remain upon any public park at any time the park is closed when they have
permission from the city council or when they are participating in an event or
function which has previously been approved by the city council.
   B.   Consent Required; Waiver:
      1.   The use of the parks and public areas within the corporate limits of
the city for overnight camping is prohibited without the consent of the mayor
and city council.
      2.   The foregoing prohibition and any applicable penalty may be waived
by the mayor and council at any regular or special meeting in favor of any
organized group or association, for such time as specified, not to exceed five
(5) days and nights, consecutively.
   C.   Presumptive Evidence: The installation or stopping of any trailer or
the erection of any tent or shelter after one hour before sundown in the area
described in subsection B1 of this section shall constitute presumptive
evidence of the breach of this chapter. (Ord. 3471, 6-1-2010)
7-5-4: UNLAWFUL USE OF VEHICLES IN PARK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any truck, automobile, motorcycle,
motor scooter, or other motor vehicle or to ride any horse, pony or other
animal in or upon the public parks within the limits of the city, except upon
clearly defined public roadways or public parking areas in such parks or except
in cases of public necessity when authorized and directed to do so by public
officials of the city. (1986 Code § 15-6)
7-5-5: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of such recreational facilities
or to hunt, fish, swim or use any boat in connection with any of said
recreational facilities owned or operated by the city without having complied
with the rules and regulations promulgated by the city council in connection
therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or failing to
comply with such, or anyone who does any act forbidden by this chapter, or
fails to do any act required by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a new
and different offense. (1986 Code § 15-7; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Street And Alley Improvements
7-6-2: Sidewalk Construction By Railroads
7-6-3: Climbing On Trains
7-6-4: Speed Of Trains
7-6-5: Obstructing Streets
7-6-6: Railroad Negligence
7-6-7: Penalty
7-6-1: STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Parallel With Street: When a railway occupies any portion of a street
with its tracks running in a general direction of such street, either on or
adjacent thereto, the railway company shall improve the space between its
tracks and two feet (2') on either side thereof in the same manner that the
remainder of the street is to be, or has been, improved, or with such other
satisfactory material as the city council by motion or resolution may approve.
   B.   Within Alley: In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with
its tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and grade such alley,
and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be, or has
been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the
council by motion or resolution may approve.
   C.   Crossing Street:
      1.   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is
being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is
occupied by its tracks and two feet (2') on each side, using the same material
as is to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other satisfactory
material as the council by motion or resolution may approve.
      2.   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of one
hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad
company shall grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its
tracks, and surface or pave it with the same material which the city is to use
or has used, on the street.
   D.   Keeping In Good Repair: Railroad companies shall keep all such
improvements made by them in a good state of repair at all times. (1986 Code §
21-1)
7-6-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY RAILROADS:
   A.   Railroad Responsibility: Railway companies shall construct sidewalks
crossing their rights of way, using the same material as is used in adjacent
sidewalks insofar as this is practicable under the circumstances. They shall
construct sidewalks on both sides of the streets when both sides are used by
pedestrians. The company shall keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at
all times.
   B.   Statutory Note: Section A of this section follows generally 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 36-117. 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 36-118(A) provides that,
if the railroad company refuses to improve streets and build sidewalks as
provided by the above section, the city may do so at the railroad company's
expense, and sue in the district court to collect from the company. 11 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 36-118(B) provides also that the city shall have a lien on
the property of the company for the amount of such expense. (1986 Code § 21-2)
7-6-3: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold onto, or in any manner attach
himself to, any railway train, locomotive, or railway car, while such is in
motion within the city, unless such person is acting in line of duty; or to
board any train or railroad car (passenger, freight, or other) except with a
proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of the train or car or
in line of duty. (1986 Code § 21-3)
7-6-4: SPEED OF TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to run, drive or propel any
railroad car, locomotive or any vehicle on rails at any speed greater than
thirty (30) miles per hour in the city. Provided, the speed limit set forth
herein shall not apply to any locomotive or railroad cars attached thereto when
such locomotive has passed the last crossing encountered in traveling through
the city. (Ord. 2823, 3-4-1991)
7-6-5: OBSTRUCTING STREETS 1 :
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street or
avenue of the city by stopping or standing any car, locomotive or any vehicle
on rails on the tracks of any railroad line operating within the corporate
limits of the city for a period of more than ten (10) minutes, so as to prevent
the free passage of vehicles or persons on foot over and across the street or
avenue where it crosses the tracks of the railroad. (Ord. 2823, 3-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-17 of this code.
7-6-6: RAILROAD NEGLIGENCE:
It shall be unlawful for an engineer, conductor, brakeman, switch tender or
other officer, agent or servant of any railroad company to be in wilful
violation or omission of his duty as such officer, agent or servant in such a
way as to endanger human life or to cause property to be injured or destroyed.
(1986 Code § 21-5)
7-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, or employee of any firm or corporation,
violating any provisions of this chapter is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (Ord. 2823, 3-4-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
AIRPORT HAZARDS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Authority; Findings; Title
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Airport Zones
7-7-4: Airport Zone Height Limitations
7-7-5: Use Restriction
7-7-6: Nonconforming Uses
7-7-7: Permit Requirements; Exceptions
7-7-8: Enforcement
7-7-9: Board Of Adjustment
7-7-10: Appeals To Board Of Adjustment
7-7-11: Judicial Review Of Board Decisions
7-7-12: Abrogation And Greater Restriction
7-7-13: Penalties
7-7-1: AUTHORITY; FINDINGS; TITLE:
   A.   Statute Authority: This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority
conferred by the airport zoning act, 3 Oklahoma Statutes section 101 et seq.,
(the act). It is hereby found that an obstruction has the potential for
endangering the lives and property of users of Vinita municipal airport and
property or occupants of land in its vicinity, that an obstruction may affect
existing and future instrument approach minimums of Vinita municipal airport;
and that an obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the landing,
takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the
utility of Vinita municipal airport and the public investment therein.
Accordingly, it is declared:
      1.   That the creation or establishment of an obstruction has the
potential of being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by Vinita
municipal airport;
      2.   That it is necessary in the interest of the public heath, public
safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions
that are a hazard to air navigation be prevented; and
      3.   That the prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to
the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   B.   Authority To Expend Funds: It is further declared that the prevention
of the creation or establishment of hazards to air navigation, and the
elimination, removal, alteration or mitigation of hazards to air navigation, or
marking and lighting of obstructions are public purposes for which a political
subdivision may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or property
interests therein.
   C.   Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as VINITA MUNICIPAL
AIRPORT ZONING ORDNANCE. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings as ascribed to
them, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: Vinita municipal airport, Vinita, Oklahoma.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level. Vinita municipal airport has as elevation of
six hundred ninety five feet (695') above mean sea level (MSL).
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, object of natural growth or use of land which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking
off at Vinita municipal airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or
taking off of aircraft.
AIRPORT HAZARD AREA: Any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard
might be established if not prevented as provided in this chapter.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
7-7-4 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides
with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set
forth in section
7-7-3 of this chapter.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the
city council of the city of Vinita as provided for by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma, also known as the zoning board of adjustment (title 10, chapter 2 of
this code).
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty (20) to one for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
7-7-4 of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic; includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee, or other similar representative thereof.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. When the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at
each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in
section
7-7-3 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the
same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation: buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet (7')
horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The building inspector of the city of Vinita, also known
as the codes enforcement officer and the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord.
3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-3: AIRPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones that include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Vinita municipal airport. Such zones are shown on
the Vinita municipal airport zoning map consisting of one sheet, prepared by
the city's engineers, FHC, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, and dated April 2001, which
is attached to ordinance 3171 on file in the office of the city clerk, and made
a part hereof by reference. An area located in more than one of the following
zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height
limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two hundred fifty
feet (250') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of one
thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   B.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   C.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
five thousand foot (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
   D.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord. 3171, 10-2-2001)
7-7-4: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   A.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet
(5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
   B.   Transitional Zones: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation which is six hundred ninety five feet (695')
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at
the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending
to where they intersect the conical surface.
   C.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
airport elevation or at a height of eight hundred forty five feet (845') above
mean sea level.
   D.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   E.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of
any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the land.
(Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-5: USE RESTRICTION:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter, and
is diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the zoning administrator to indicate to
the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the city. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Future Uses:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in subsections A1a, A1b and A1c of
this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure
shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any
zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and
granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined
whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations
herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit
shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
      2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter except as set forth in subsection
7-7-4E of this chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter, or any amendments thereto, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the zoning
administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated,
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the board of
adjustment for a variance from such regulations.
      2.   The application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination
from the federal aviation administration as to the effect of the proposal on
the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of
navigable airspace.
      3.   Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship, and relief granted will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial
justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
      4.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter may be considered by the board of adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the Vinita municipal airport commission for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the Vinita municipal
airport commission does not respond to the application within fifteen (15) days
after receipt, the board of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said
application.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to required the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the city, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Designated Official; Duties: The building inspector is hereby
designated the zoning administrator. It shall be the duty of the zoning
administrator to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the zoning
administrator upon a form published for that purpose.
   B.   Schedule Of Fees: A schedule of fees to be paid will be established by
the city council from time to time by a separate resolution.
   C.   Consideration Of Applications: Applications required by this chapter to
be submitted to the zoning administrator shall be promptly considered and
granted or denied. Application for action by the board of adjustment shall be
forthwith transmitted by the zoning administrator. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-9: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Powers: A zoning board of adjustments has been created to have and
exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning
administrator in the enforcement of this chapter;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass under this chapter;
      3.   To authorize in specific cases such variances from the terms of this
chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special
conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done; and
      4.   Exceptions and/or variances may only be allowed by the board of
adjustment after notice and hearing as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
44-108.
   B.   Compliance With State And Local Regulations: The board of adjustment
shall comply with all regulations of title 11 Oklahoma Statutes, and title 10,
chapter 2 of this code concerning the zoning board of adjustment.
   C.   Written Findings: The board of adjustment shall make written findings
of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its
legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any
order, requirement, decision, or determination which properly comes before it
under the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Voting Of Members: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the
board of adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the zoning administrator, or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect any variation to this chapter. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-10: APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Right To Appeal:
      1.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of
the zoning administrator made in the administration of the chapter may appeal
to the board of adjustment.
      2.   Schedule of fees for appeals will be established from time to time
by a separate resolution of the city council.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing Notice Of Appeal: All appeals hereunder must be
taken within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision as provided by
section
10-2-3 of this code, by filing with the city clerk and the board of adjustment
a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The city clerk shall
forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the zoning administrator
certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in
the opinion of the zoning administrator cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the
board of adjustment or notice to the zoning administrator and on due cause
shown.
   D.   Designate Time For Hearing; Public Notice: The board of adjustment, as
provided for by section
10-2-4 of this code, shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give
public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Board Action: The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of
adjustment who is of the opinion that a decision of the board of adjustment is
illegal may appeal to the appropriate district court in the manner as provided
in 3 Oklahoma Statutes section 111. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-12: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999)
7-7-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation,
order, or ruling promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be
punishable in the municipal court of the city as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 3118, 10-5-1999; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Remedial Action: In addition, the city may institute an action to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violation of the act, or this chapter
and its regulations or of any order or ruling made in connection with their
administration or enforcement, in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
3118, 10-5-1999)
CHAPTER 8
PROHIBITED ACTS ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-8-1: Use Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products
7-8-1: USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   The use of tobacco products and vapor products, as defined in Title 5,
Section
5-2A-1 of this code, is a public nuisance, is dangerous to the health of both
adults and children, and sets an unhealthy example for the City of Vinita's
youth and children. Therefore, the use of tobacco products and vapor products,
including, but not limited to, the use of products containing tobacco in any
form including smokeless tobacco, and all vapor products is hereby prohibited,
and declared an offense, on all Municipal property.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "Municipal property" shall be defined
as any building, structure, vehicle, or parcel of open land, including all City
parks, owned or leased by the City of Vinita.
   C.   The City of Vinita shall cause appropriate signage to be installed in
prominent locations on all Municipal property with the ordinance's number and
the words "TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS PROHIBITED" written thereon.
   D.   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be punishable by imposition of a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) excluding cost,
fees, and assessments as provided in subsection
1-9-12A of this Code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor.
   E.   The Vinita Police Department shall enforce this Section and the City
authorizes the prosecution of the same in the Vinita municipal court. (Ord.
3708, 8-6-2019; amd. Ord. 3856, 11-5-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
CITY OWNED UTILITIES; AUTHORITY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Vinita Utilities Authority
8-1-2: Superintendent Of Public Utilities
8-1-3: Utility And City Personnel
8-1-4: Attaching Pipes, Wires To Utilities
8-1-5: Use Of Utility Services; Compliance Required
8-1-6: Permitting Others To Use Services
8-1-7: Extension Beyond City Limits
8-1-8: Tampering With Public Utility
8-1-9: Wasting Water, Gas, Electricity
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: VINITA UTILITIES AUTHORITY:
The trust indenture, hereby incorporated by reference, by and between Bobby G.
Wiles, as trustor, and Bobby G. Wiles, Charles E. Kirkendoll, Ronnie Yocham,
Joe Johnson, Kenneth Funk, Willard Wells, Lee Simmons, Clarence E. Briley and
Jim Wright, as trustees, dated as of December 20, 1985, creating the Vinita
utilities authority, a copy of which is on file and available for inspection in
the office of the city clerk, wherein the city of Vinita, Oklahoma, is declared
to be the beneficiary of said trust, is hereby approved and the city council
hereby accepts beneficial interest in said trust for and on behalf of the city,
as beneficiary thereof. (1986 Code § 18-28)
8-1-2: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Office Created: The Vinita utilities authority is hereby authorized to
create the office of superintendent of public utilities and to specify such
duties and responsibilities as the board of the Vinita utilities authority
shall determine to be necessary and advisable for such office in the interest
of the public welfare and the safe and efficient operation of the facilities of
the Vinita utilities authority. (Ord. 3275, 6-7-2005)
   B.   Police Power: The superintendent of public utilities shall have the
rights and power of a police officer when performing his official duties. (1986
Code § 18-2)
   C.   Approval Of Necessary Expenditures: The superintendent is authorized to
approve necessary expenditures of the utilities authority for amounts up to
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per purchase. (Ord. 3395, 6-3-2008)
8-1-3: UTILITY AND CITY PERSONNEL:
   A.   Interfering With Utility Department Personnel: It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to interfere with, obstruct, or resist
personnel of the municipal utility department when they are engaged in
performance of their official duties. (1986 Code § 18-3)
   B.   Assistance By City Personnel: The personnel of the police, fire, street
and other departments of the city, under supervision and control by the mayor,
shall assist the municipal utility department in the enforcement of ordinances,
rules and regulations relating to city owned public utilities as may be
appropriate. (1986 Code § 18-4)
   C.   Access To Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to fail or refuse to give the superintendent of public utilities
and other duly authorized personnel of the municipal utility department free
access, at reasonable hours of the day or in case of emergency at other times,
to all parts of buildings and premises served by the water system, the gas
system, the electric system or any other city owned utility or enterprise, for
the purpose of performing their official duties in connection with such
utilities and enterprises; and such personnel shall have such right of access,
provided always that such personnel are properly identified. (1986 Code § 18-5)
8-1-4: ATTACHING PIPES, WIRES TO UTILITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any pipe,
wire, or other conduit or thing to the water system, gas system, electric
system or any other city owned utility or enterprise, or to turn on or off
water, gas, electricity or any other service or commodity furnished by any such
utility or enterprise, except in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
(1986 Code § 18-6)
8-1-5: USE OF UTILITY SERVICES; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use water, gas,
electricity or any other commodity or service provided by a city owned utility
except in the manner and at such time as may be permitted by the ordinances of
the city. (1986 Code § 18-7)
8-1-6: PERMITTING OTHERS TO USE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation being served by a city
owned utility or enterprise to furnish others water, gas, electricity or any
other commodity or service provided him or it by the utility on any other
premises except as may be permitted by the rules and regulations of the
municipal utility department. (1986 Code § 18-8)
8-1-7: EXTENSION BEYOND CITY LIMITS:
City owned utilities shall not hereafter be extended beyond the corporate
limits of the city to any unincorporated portion of the urban area of Vinita
nor sold to or used by new customers or patrons in such areas until and unless
all of the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city applying to the
development, redevelopment or use of land or construction or use of buildings
within the city are complied with in the areas applying for such utilities and
until and unless the owners of the property of such area applying for such
utilities shall agree to become a part of the city when and if the city council
determines that such annexation is desirable. (1986 Code § 18-11)
8-1-8: TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITY:
   A.   Tampering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, excepting city personnel acting in line of duty and other persons
duly authorized, to tamper with, injure or destroy any part of, or thing
belonging to, the water system, gas system, electric system, sewer system or
any other public utility or enterprise belonging to the city. "Tamper" shall
include, but not be limited to, attaching any pipe, wire, or other conduit or
thing onto any utility or to turn on or off any such service, except in
accordance with the ordinances of the city, or to break or deface. Nothing in
this provision shall prevent a property owner, tenant or other individual from
opening or closing the water meter valve at a property in cases of emergency
and thereafter reclosing or reopening such valve, provided that in the event
such property owner, tenant or individual damages any part of the city water
system due to such act, he or she shall be responsible to remit to the city the
cost to repair the damage. An emergency for the purpose of this section shall
be defined as a water leak in the customer's water line of significant
magnitude to cause damage to property. (Ord. 3457, 2-2-2010)
   B.   Violation; Deposit Required: Upon the occurrence of any act prohibited
hereinabove, the person, firm, corporation or legal entity purchasing services
from the city system affected shall be required, as a condition to a
continuation of service from such system, to deposit with the city clerk the
sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), an amount in addition to the water meter
deposit required by section
8-2-1 of this title. Upon a second such occurrence, the deposit shall be
forfeited to the city and service from such system terminated after notice as
provided in subsection
8-2-3B of this title unless the city council shall otherwise determine. This
subsection shall not be construed to limit the liability of the violator, but
an additional requirement for continuation of service. (1986 Code § 18-9; amd.
2005 Code)
8-1-9: WASTING WATER, GAS, ELECTRICITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to waste water, gas,
electricity or any other commodity or service secured from a city owned
utility, whether by faulty installations or parts thereof or otherwise. (1986
Code § 18-10)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when an ordinance
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1986 Code § 18-27; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Water Rates Established; Deposit Required
8-2-2: Rendition Of Bills
8-2-3: Delinquency Procedure
8-2-4: Fluoride Content
8-2-5: Prohibited Acts
8-2-6: Penalty
8-2-1: WATER RATES ESTABLISHED; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
All consumers and users of water furnished by the city shall pay a deposit for
each and every water meter, and shall pay for water service or such other
deposit, rate or rates as the authority's board of trustees shall by resolution
establish from time to time. (Ord. 3141, 12-29-2000, eff. 12-29-2000; amd. 2005
Code)
   A.   Capital Asset Fee: The Vinita utilities authority is hereby authorized
to assess a capital asset fee per month for each water meter located on the
Vinita utilities authority water system and shall be authorized to increase the
capital asset fee upon motion of the authority from time to time as it deems
appropriate. (Ord. 3313, 5-2-2006)
8-2-2: RENDITION OF BILLS:
The city of Vinita, Oklahoma, shall on or about the first day of each month
notify the users or consumers of said water of the amount of water which has
been consumed by said user or consumer during the preceding month, as shown by
the water meters installed for such purpose; and that said consumer or user
shall pay the amount shown on said notice or water bill in the office of the
city clerk of Vinita, Oklahoma, before the end of the workday on the tenth day
of the month in which said bill is received. (Ord. 3532, 8-7-2012, eff. 11-1-
2012)
8-2-3: DELINQUENCY PROCEDURE:
   A.   Charges Added To Unpaid Balance: If section
8-2-2 of this chapter is not complied with by the consumer or user of water as
set forth therein, then in that event, a five percent (5%) per month penalty on
the delinquent balance shall be added to the subsequent bill.
   B.   Delinquent Notices: Delinquent notices will be mailed the day following
penalty assessment to the consumer or user of water whose account balance,
including penalty, exceeds twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Default Fee And Additional Deposit Added: When said delinquent account
is not paid in full by four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on the twentieth of the
month, the city of Vinita shall assess a default fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
Those consumers or users of water whose deposit is less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) will be assessed a fee to increase their deposit to one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service: When said delinquent account is not paid in
full by four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on the twentieth of the month, the city
of Vinita shall turn off the water at the meter and lock the meter of said
consumer or user. However, in the event that the city of Vinita receives notice
of stay due to bankruptcy, termination of service shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the bankruptcy laws. The second time the
consumer or user fails to pay as set forth above and their water is turned off,
an additional meter deposit of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be assessed.
   E.   Restoration Of Service: Prior to restoration of service, the account
must be paid in full, including the default fee and additional deposit fees.
   F.   Delinquent Accounts: Water service may be denied or terminated at the
city's sole discretion to any customer and any premises for any person or
entity who owes a past due and delinquent utility account who is a recipient,
beneficiary or consumer of water, whether such account is offered by some other
name or not.
   G.   False Information To Avoid Charges: If the city clerk or designee
receives sufficient evidence to indicate that a customer has provided false
information to establish water service at a new location to avoid the payment
of charges owed at a previous location, the city shall transfer the charges
owed to the current account, and the charges shall become a part of the
customer's utility bill, at which time the entire bill becomes subject to the
city's payment policy. (Ord. 3549, 4-16-2013)
8-2-4: FLUORIDE CONTENT:
The quantity of fluoride in the public water supply shall be controlled in such
manner that the amount present in the water served to the public shall be in
conformity with the policy, and subsequent changes thereto, established by the
Oklahoma state board of health. (1986 Code § 18-17)
8-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Irrigating While Fire In Progress: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to use any water from the city water system for irrigation
or otherwise watering of plants and grass during the progress of any fire in
the city. (1986 Code § 18-15)
   B.   Obstructing Hydrants: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct
or interfere with the free and unhampered way or access to any hydrant by
placing around or upon the same any stone, lumber, brick, dirt or other thing.
(1986 Code § 18-16)
8-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
8-1-10 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Sewer Service Charges
8-3-3: Nonresident Users
8-3-4: Billing And Payment; Delinquencies
8-3-5: Use Of Water Deposits
8-3-6: Sanitary Sewer Bonds
8-3-7: Sewer Inflow And Sewer Traps
8-3-8: Prohibited Discharges
8-3-9: New Sewers And Connections
8-3-10: Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms are hereby defined:
SANITARY SEWAGE: The liquid waste which may or may not contain solids,
originating in the sanitary conveniences for personnel of a dwelling, business
building, factory or institution.
SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM: Includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines, main lines,
submain lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants, and all sewer lines
connected to the city sewer lines or treatment plants whether owned by the city
or not.
USER OF THE SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM: The person, firm or corporation having a
contract for water service at a particular location, if the location has a
sanitary sewer connection with the city system, or in case there is no water
contract on file, then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with
water bills for the location, or which pays the same, or in case a private
water supply is used, then the proprietor of the location having the sewer
connection. (1986 Code § 18-18)
8-3-2: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Service Charges; Metered And Nonmetered:
      1.   All users of the authority/city owned wastewater treatment system
shall be charged a monthly fee based upon metered water consumption at a rate
or rates as the authority's board of trustees shall establish by resolution
from time to time. (Ord. 3143, 12-29-2000; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   In the case of users not on a metered basis, the utility
superintendent shall establish an estimated water consumption based on a
comparison of the nonmetered user with a metered user of similar class.
Example: A nonmetered family of four (4) will be compared to a typical family
of four (4) with a water meter to establish water consumption. (Ord. 3143, 12-
29-2000)
   B.   User Charge Schedule; Volume Basis: As the BOD, suspended solids, and
other pollutant concentration discharged shall be approximately equal for all
domestic users, users shall be charged on a volume basis in accordance with the
following formula:
Cu = Cb/Ct/Vt (Vu)
 
(Based on Model #1, 40 CFR 35, Appendix B)
 Symbols and definitions:
 Cu  = A user's charge per unit of time
 Cb  = A user's base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
        administration, etc.) per unit of time
 Ct  = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time
 V/t = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
        extraneous flows)
 
   C.   Excessive Strength Charges: For any user, when the BOD exceeds *225 mg/
l, the suspended solids exceeds *225 mg/l, or when the pollutant concentrations
exceed the range of concentrations of the pollutants in normal domestic sewage,
a surcharge shall be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be
calculated by the following formula:
*Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
Cs = (Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc (P) )
(Based on Model #2, 40 CFR 35, Appendix B)
 Symbols and definitions:
 Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
 Bc = O&M costs for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
 B  = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
 Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS)
 S  = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level
 Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
 P  = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
 Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
   D.   Review And Revision: The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not
less often than every two (2) years regarding the wastewater contribution of
users and user classes, the total costs of the operation and maintenance of the
treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The charges for users or
user classes shall be revised to accomplish the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and
the rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
   E.   Toxic Pollutants Charges: Each user that discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge of the treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
   F.   User Notification: Each user shall be notified at least annually, in
conjunction with the regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the
user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services. Costs
shall be broken down to show the operation and maintenance costs attributable
to that user.
   G.   Charges For Extraneous Flows: The costs of operation and maintenance
for all flows not directly attributable to users (such as infiltration/inflow)
shall be distributed among users on the same basis as operation and maintenance
charges.
   H.   Compliance Records: A record keeping system shall be established and
maintained by the city to document compliance with federal regulations
pertaining to the user charge ordinance. (1986 Code § 18-19)
8-3-3: NONRESIDENT USERS:
All users of the city sanitary sewerage system having connections without the
corporate limits of Vinita shall be charged one and one-half (11/2) times the
scheduled rates as set forth in section
8-3-2 of this chapter. The city does not obligate itself to furnish sanitary
sewer service to any persons whomsoever, but will furnish such service as is
reasonable within its financial ability to do so. (1986 Code § 18-20)
8-3-4: BILLING AND PAYMENT; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Monthly Billing; Time Of Payment; Delinquency:
      1.   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due twenty (20)
days after the date of billing.
      2.   Users on metered water service will be billed on the same notice as
water charges and will be designated as a separate entry.
      3.   Users of the wastewater system not on metered water service shall be
charged at the rate established by the water and sewer superintendent.
      4.   Users with delinquent accounts of sixty (60) days will be notified
in writing by the utility superintendent that water and/or wastewater services
will be terminated unless the account is paid in full 1 .
      5.   The utility superintendent will utilize the law enforcement agency
to assist as required in the control and management of the user charge system.
(1986 Code § 18-19)
   B.   Billing With Water Charges; Partial Month:
      1.   For the purpose of billing users of the sanitary sewerage system,
the said bill shall be the same as that which is now used for the billing of
water charges by the city, and the due date for the payment of the sewer
service charge shall be the same due date as for the payment for water bills.
Billings for the sewer service charge shall be rendered on the water bills,
where water bills are rendered, but shall be shown as a separate item from the
water charge.
      2.   Where sewer service is commenced or terminated during a period for
which bills will be rendered, there shall be no charge for a half month or
less, but a major portion of a month shall be treated as a full month.
   C.   Accepting Payments: All payments for sanitary sewer service shall be
made to the city clerk and deposited in the general fund, and the city clerk
shall not accept payment for a water bill without payment of the sewer service
charge, nor shall the clerk accept payment of the sewer service charge without
payment of the water bill.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment: The failure to pay a sewer
service charge when due shall be cause for discontinuing and disconnecting
either the sewer connection or the water connection or both. (1986 Code § 18-
21)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-2-3 of this title.
8-3-5: USE OF WATER DEPOSITS:
All deposits made by users of city water, as required by the city ordinances to
guarantee payment of water bills, may be also applied to pay delinquent or
defaulting sewer service charges of the user who made the deposit. (1986 Code §
18-22)
8-3-6: SANITARY SEWER BONDS:
   A.   Sinking Fund: On or before June 30 until the sanitary sewer bonds are
paid, there shall be deposited in the sinking fund of the city the sum
necessary to enable the payment of the interest accruing upon said bonds as the
same shall become due and to accumulate a sinking fund for the payment of the
principal thereof when due.
   B.   Authorized By Voters: The bonds were issued in the sum and form as
prescribed by ordinance 2358 as authorized by the voters of the city in
compliance with state law.
   C.   Annual Tax: An annual tax shall be levied upon all taxable property of
the city to meet the obligations of subsection A of this section. (1986 Code §
18-23)
8-3-7: SEWER INFLOW AND SEWER TRAPS:
   A.   Inflow Sources Prohibited 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain or allow to be maintained on his property any connection from inflow
sources into the sanitary sewer system of the city. "Inflow sources" as used
herein are defined to be any connection to the sanitary sewer system of the
city which allows the entrance of storm waters, including, but not limited to,
downspout connections, area drains such as surface inlets, direct storm sewer
connections, open cleanouts, abandoned and unplugged service lines, broken
service lines and uncovered manholes.
   B.   Grease Trap Required: It shall be unlawful for any person not to
construct and maintain a trap if they discharge grease or waste containing
grease in excessive amounts, oil, sand, flammable waste, or other harmful
ingredients. The trap shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city
which is readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   C.   Violation; Remedies: Upon violation of either subsection A or B of this
section, in addition to other remedies, the city shall have the right to
terminate service. Further, this section shall not be construed to interfere
with any civil remedy which might be available to the city. (1986 Code § 18-24)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 4 of this title.
8-3-8: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Injurious Materials: No person may discharge to public sewers any waste
which by itself or by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   B.   Meet Certain Criteria: All discharges shall be prohibited except those
that meet the criteria for domestic wastewater. BOD concentration shall not
exceed *225 mg/l. SS shall not exceed *225 mg/l.
*Maximum limit for average domestic wastewater.
   C.   Industrial Discharges: All industrial discharges are prohibited.
At the present time there are no industrial users in the city. If an industrial
user should desire to locate in the city and make use of the sewerage system,
an industrial cost recovery system will be initiated in accordance with EPA and
state regulations at that time to compensate for such use of the system.
   D.   New Connections: Any new connections from inflow sources into the
sanitary sewer portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   E.   Violations; Remedial Action:
      1.   The city can pursue criminal and civil remedies under authority of
statutes or ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges, in
addition to the penalty provided for in this chapter. (1986 Code § 18-25)
      2.   The city reserves the right to terminate service to any customer
that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the
sewer system. Further, if the sewer bill becomes sixty (60) days' delinquent,
the city shall terminate water service after five (5) days' notice unless
otherwise provided for by state law. (1986 Code § 18-25; amd. 2005 Code)
8-3-9: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   City Requirements: The city shall require design and construction
techniques for new sewers and connections.
   B.   Compliance With State Regulations: All new sanitary sewage works shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma
state department of health regulations. (1986 Code § 18-26)
   C.   Availability Of Public Sewer: When a public sewer becomes available
(within 100 feet), the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within
sixty (60) days. If the owner fails to connect, the owner shall be charged the
monthly rate as if he or she had connected upon the expiration of the sixty
(60) days. (1986 Code § 18-26; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Violations; Remedial Action:
      1.   The city may pursue criminal and civil remedies under authority of
statutes or ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges, in
addition to the penalty provided for in this chapter.
      2.   The city reserves the right to terminate service to any customer
that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the
sewer system. (1986 Code § 18-26)
8-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
8-1-10 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
INFILTRATION AND INFLOW REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Prohibited Connections
8-4-3: Disconnect Order
8-4-4: Termination Of Service
8-4-5: Reconnection Of Service; Cost
8-4-6: Abatement Of Nuisance
8-4-7: Access And Entry
8-4-8: Disconnection Procedure; Abatement Cost
8-4-9: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-4-10: Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in this section shall be applicable to this chapter
and shall not supersede, amend or alter other codes or enactments of the city.
ACCESS: Entry into or upon any real estate or structure including any part
thereof.
ACCESSIBLE: Capable of being reached by any reasonable means.
ADMINISTRATION: The mayor of the city of Vinita is hereby designated as the
official responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.
CONFIRMED SOURCE: A source of inflow and/or infiltration detected by visual
observation, smoke testing, dyed water testing or other means as determined by
the designated infiltration/inflow inspector.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Liquid and waterborne waste derived principally from
dwellings, business buildings, institutions and the like; free from industrial
wastes, and of such character as to permit sanitary disposal without special
treatment into the public sewer or by means of a private sewage disposal
system.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
domestic.
INFILTRATION: Water, as herein defined, entering the sanitary sewer system,
including private sewer service connections, from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. "Infiltration" does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
INFILTRATION/INFLOW: A combination of infiltration and inflow water entering
the sanitary sewer lines, with no way of distinguishing the basic source, and
which tends to cause an overloading of the capacities of the sanitary sewer
system.
INFLOW: Water discharged into the sanitary sewer system, including service
connections, from such means as, but not limited to, roof downspouts or
leaders; cellar, yard, and area drains; sump pumps; foundation drains;
cleanouts; cooling water discharge; drains from springs and swampy areas;
manhole covers; cross connections from storm sewers; combined sewers; catch
basins; storm waters; surface runoff; street washwaters; or drainage. "Inflow"
does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
LESSEE: A person, firm or corporation having the responsibility, pursuant to a
written agreement with the owner, to maintain, repair or replace sanitary sewer
lines and/or discharges which cause "infiltration" or "inflow" as herein
defined.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, estate, governmental
agency, or any other legal entity and/or assigns.
REPRESENTATIVE: An appointee of the city council or water and sewer committee
of the city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: All lines, pipes, tanks, conduits, structures or other
devices designed for the collection, transportation, storage, treatment or
disposal of sewage, whether owned by the city or other persons, and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SCHEDULE OF COMPLIANCE: A schedule of remedial measures and times including an
enforceable sequence of actions or operations leading to compliance with this
chapter.
SEWAGE: A combination of domestic or industrial wastewater which may include
chemical, house wastes, laundry wastes, human excreta, animal or vegetable
matter in suspension or solution, and other solids in suspension or solution,
and which is discharged from a dwelling, building, or other structure and
permitted to enter the sanitary sewer system for the purpose of treatment and
disposal.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: The system or facility for treating,
neutralizing, stabilizing, or disposing of sewage, which system or facility has
a designed capacity to receive 1.5 million gallons per day (mgd) of sewage. The
term "wastewater treatment facility" also includes appurtenances such as
interceptors, collection lines, outfall and outlet sewers, pumping stations,
and related equipment. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992; amd. 2005 Code)
8-4-2: PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS:
No person shall henceforth make or allow the continued connection of roof
downspouts or leaders; interior or exterior foundation drains; cleanouts; sump
pumps; cellar, yard, and area drains; cooling water discharges; drains from
springs or swampy areas; or other sources of surface, storm or ground water to
a structure sewer or structure drain which is connected, either directly or
indirectly, to the sanitary sewer system, even though such connection may have
been allowable when made under then existing ordinances, rules, regulations, or
standards. Provided, however, that interior or exterior perimeter building
foundation drains connected directly into the sanitary sewer system will be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter if the connect point is not
accessible and the connect was made prior to the effective date of this
chapter. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-3: DISCONNECT ORDER:
   A.   Issuance: The mayor of the city or his designated agent may issue an
order directing the owner or the lessee of the real estate or structure to
disconnect all private infiltration or inflow waters from the sanitary sewer
system. The order shall be effective not less than sixty (60) days from its
date of issuance. The order may state a deadline for compliance but such
deadline shall, in no event, be more than six (6) months after issuance of the
order.
   B.   Request For Review Hearing; Committee Action:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the order, the owner or the
lessee may request a review hearing before the water and sewer committee of the
city by filing a written request with the city clerk. The filing of such
request shall act as a stay of the order.
      2.   After such hearing, the water and sewer committee of the city may
affirm, set aside or modify such order, but the water and sewer committee of
the city shall have no authority to set aside or modify the order unless
convinced that no private infiltration or inflow exists on the premises. (Ord.
2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-4: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Service Of Order: The city council may order the termination of water
service to any real estate or structure if the owner or lessee has refused to
allow access and entry or has failed or refused to comply with the disconnect
order requiring that the private infiltration or inflow waters be prohibited
from entering the sanitary sewer system. The termination shall be effective
thirty (30) days after service upon the owner or lessee. Service of the order
shall be in person or by registered delivery mail.
   B.   Request For Hearing; Committee Action; Appeal:
      1.   Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the termination order, the
owner or lessee may request a hearing by filing a written request therefor with
the city clerk. The filing of such request shall act as a stay of the
termination order.
      2.   After the hearing, the water and sewer committee of the city may
affirm, set aside or modify the terms of the order. The decision of the water
and sewer committee of the city entered after such a review hearing may be
appealed de novo to the city council upon the filing of a written appeal with
the city clerk within ten (10) days after said decision, and the city council
may affirm, set aside or modify the order as issued or as modified. (Ord. 2950,
5-18-1992)
8-4-5: RECONNECTION OF SERVICE; COST:
Water service, disconnected under the provisions of section
8-4-4 of this chapter shall not be reconnected until the sources of
infiltration or inflow have been disconnected. The cost of reconnection shall
be the burden and responsibility of the owner or lessee. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-6: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
In addition to or in lieu of termination of service and/or prosecution in
municipal court, the city may maintain a civil action by injunction to abate
and temporarily or permanently enjoin the continuation of the private
infiltration and/or inflow as a nuisance, in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-7: ACCESS AND ENTRY:
   A.   Access: Representatives, employees, or agents of the city shall have
the right to make an inspection of any parcel of real estate and/or structure
for the purpose of determining compliance with this chapter. Inspections shall
be done at a reasonable hour of the day.
   B.   Request For Entry: If the structure or real estate to be inspected is
occupied, the representative, employee, or agent shall first present proper
credentials and request entry. If the structure or real estate is unoccupied,
the city shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person(s) having charge or control of the structure or real estate and request
entry. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
   C.   Search Warrants: If, after proper request, entry or access is refused,
the city may compel such access by application to a court of competent
jurisdiction for a search warrant in compliance with the provisions of section
30 of the Oklahoma bill of rights and the fourth and fourteenth amendments to
the United States constitution relating to unreasonable searches and seizures.
(Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992; amd. 2005 Code)
8-4-8: DISCONNECTION PROCEDURE; ABATEMENT COST:
   A.   Issuance Of Order: Upon determination by the mayor or his designated
agent that a confirmed source private infiltration or inflow exists, the mayor
or his designated agent shall issue a disconnect order to the owner and, if
known, the lessee as set forth in section
8-4-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
   B.   Abatement By Owner Or City; Costs A Lien:
      1.   The owner or lessee shall comply with the order by either performing
the work or having the work done by a licensed plumbing or sewer contractor.
      2.   If the property owner is unable or refuses to repair or disconnect
the infiltration and inflow source, the city may, at its discretion, contract
with a plumbing contractor of the city's choice to make the required repair,
replacement, or disconnection to remove the infiltration and inflow source.
      3.   The cost of the abatement may include, but not be limited to: repair
of the defect, repair of streets, alleys, curbs, and parking. The cost of such
action will be filed as a lien on the property.
      4.   A charge of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month
will be added to the utility bill of the property owner or utility user at that
address until paid in full. Lien release will be issued on receipt of total
cost. (Ord. 3128, 5-2-2000)
   C.   Manner Of Performing Work: All work shall be done in a workmanlike
manner and shall be performed in compliance with adopted codes and regulations.
   D.   Reinspection; Confirm Compliance:
      1.   After completion of the work, the representatives, employees, or
agents of the city shall reinspect the premises to verify compliance with the
disconnect order and also confirm that there are no other private infiltration
or inflow sources on the property.
      2.   Approval of the work by the representatives, employees, or agents
shall not preclude the city from reinspecting the premises at a later date for
the purpose of ensuring continued compliance with previous disconnect orders or
to identify additional infiltration/inflow sources. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-9: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This chapter shall not be construed or interpreted as imposing upon the city or
its officials, representatives, employees or agents: a) any liability or
responsibility for damages to any property; or b) any representation or
warranty that any system, installation or portion thereof that is constructed
or repaired under orders and inspections required by this chapter will function
properly. In addition, neither the city nor any of its officials,
representatives, employees and agents charged with the enforcement of this
chapter, if acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of their
duties, shall be personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or
property as a result of performing or not performing any act required by this
chapter. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992)
8-4-10: PENALTY:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a person violating any of
the provisions of this chapter or obstructing its enforcement shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in municipal court, shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2950, 5-18-1992; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Fire Limits; Construction Regulations
9-1-3: Building Permits; Fees
9-1-4: Collection Of Inspection Fees
9-1-5: Penalty; Judicial Relief
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   A certain document, one (1) copy of which is on file in the Office of
the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City of Vinita, Oklahoma, being marked and
designated as the International Building Code, 2015 edition, or most current
edition thereafter, and as hereafter amended from time to time, including
appendix chapters C through H, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the City of Vinita, in the
State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings and structures; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City of Vinita are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set forth in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 3653, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-20-
2017)
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: The city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
   Section 106.5.2. Insert: The city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
   Section 1612.3. Insert: July 16, 1991
   Section 3410.2. Insert: December 7, 2004
   (Ord. 3256, 12-7-2004)
9-1-2: FIRE LIMITS; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fire Limits Defined: All parts of the incorporated City within the
following limits shall hereafter be known as the fire limits of the City:
Beginning at the intersection of the center of North Second Street and the
center of East Flint Avenue in the City of Vinita, Oklahoma, thence due west
along the center line of West Flint Street to the intersection of the center
line of North Foreman Street, thence south along the center line of North
Foreman and South Foreman Street to the intersection of the center line of West
Illinois Avenue, thence due east along the center line of West Illinois Avenue
to the alleyway in the center of Block 50 in the City of Vinita, Oklahoma,
between Lots 4 and 5, thence south along the center line of said alleyway to
the intersection of the center line of West Canadian Avenue, thence east along
the center line of West Canadian Avenue to the intersection of the center line
of South Scraper Street, thence south along the center line of South Scraper
Street to the intersection of the center line of South Avenue, thence east
along the center line of South Avenue to the intersection of the center line of
the alleyway running between Block 72 and 73 in the City of Vinita, Oklahoma,
thence north along the center line of said alleyway to the intersection of the
center line of East Canadian Avenue, thence east along the center line of East
Canadian Avenue to the intersection of the center line of South Vann Street,
thence north along the center line of South Vann Street to the intersection
with the center line of the northern most alleyway running east and west
through Block 48 in the City of Vinita, Oklahoma, thence due east parallel to
the center line of Illinois Avenue to the intersection of the center line of
South Second Street, thence north along the center line of South Second Street
to the point of beginning.
   (1986 Code § 4-5; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Construction Regulations:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter erect any building or
any addition to any building or structure within the fire limits unless the
outer walls, ground floor and covering thereof be composed wholly of
noncombustible materials; provided however, that wood flooring may be laid over
noncombustible underflooring with the screeds embedded in the noncombustible
underflooring, so that the wooden flooring shall at all points be in direct
contact and touch with the underflooring.
      2.   Nothing herein, however, shall be understood to prohibit the use of
tar and gravel or slag and asbestos roofing, but such roofs must be approved by
the building inspector.
      3.   All exposed windows within the fire limits except windows facing on
streets, alleys or yards over thirty feet (30') wide shall be protected by
standard fire resisting shutters or by metal window frames and metal sash,
glazed with wire glass, such shutters in all cases to be made from
noncombustible materials and to be self-enclosing and automatic, as approved by
the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
      4.   In all buildings, structures and additions within the said fire
limits over fifty feet (50') wide, which have divided partitions supporting the
roof or the floor above, the dividing partitions shall be of noncombustible
material. If beams or girders and posts and piers are used in lieu of
partitions, same shall be of noncombustible material.
      5.   No part of any building shall extend beyond the building line and on
streets, except windows, cornices and galleries above the first story or ten
feet (10') in the clear above grade line, and such projection beyond the
building line shall not exceed three feet (3'); provided however, that in no
case shall any building or any part of a building extend beyond the street
line, excepting that anywhere above the second story, the main roof cornice may
project twenty four inches (24"), and all minor cornices and belts, twelve
inches (12"); and on buildings of five (5) stories and more, the main roof
cornice may project not more than forty inches (40") beyond the property line
bordering on a street or alley. (1986 Code § 4-6)
   C.   Taller Buildings Fireproofed: All buildings, structures or additions in
the fire limits three (3) or more stories in height shall be fireproof in
construction. All stairways, floors, walls, partitions, beams, girders, columns
and supports shall be noncombustible material. The top hand mold or railing may
be of wood, but the newels shall be noncombustible. (1986 Code § 4-7)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Capping Of Sewer Line:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, move or demolish any building or any other structure
in the city without first obtaining a building permit for each building or
structure from the building inspector of the city.
      2.   No building permit shall be issued under this section until, and
unless, prior to the issuance of said building permit, the codes enforcement
officer has certified that the building permit applicant has capped the sewer
line in such a manner as to prevent any infiltration into the sewer system. The
sewer line capping shall occur at the city main unless good cause is shown why
the line should be capped elsewhere. (Ord. 2959, 7-21-1992)
   B.   Issuance Of Permits: The codes enforcement officer is hereby appointed
building inspector as additional duties to his office and shall issue permits
for the erecting, constructing, enlarging, altering, repairing, improving,
moving or demolishing of any building or structure within the city, upon
payment of the prescribed fee as hereinafter set forth upon application to his
office. (1986 Code § 4-67; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Permit Fee; Bond:
      1.   The codes enforcement officer shall charge a fee for each permit
issued by his office for erecting, constructing, enlarging, altering,
repairing, improving, moving or demolishing any building or structure within
the city, and any additional administrative fee authorized by law. The city
shall additionally collect any fees required by the Oklahoma uniform building
code commission or other state agency and shall remit such fees to the
appropriate entity pursuant to state law. (Ord. 3461, 3-16-2010)
      2.   Further, any applicants seeking to move, or causing to be moved, any
building shall deposit a bond with sufficient sureties to be approved by the
codes enforcement officer in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
providing for payment of all damages that may be sustained by virtue of the
moving operations. The person moving a building shall place and maintain danger
lights about the building sufficient to warn other persons using the streets
and alleys.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership
or individual to move or cause to be moved any house or building, or part
thereof, or similar structure, on the streets or alleys of the city without
having first obtained such permit, paid such permit fee, and deposited such
bond with the codes enforcement officer. (1986 Code § 4-68; amd. 2005 Code)
9-1-4: COLLECTION OF INSPECTION FEES:
All fees collected pursuant to this Title shall be collected by and paid to the
City Clerk or the City’s authorized agents or third-party contractors,
including, but not limited to: building and life safety plans examiners,
consultants, or inspectors. Fee schedules, as adopted by the City Council,
shall be posted in the Office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 3461, 3-16-2010; amd.
Ord. 3822, 9-19-2023)
9-1-5: PENALTY; JUDICIAL RELIEF:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or
vocation for which a license, permit or certificate of registration is required
by this chapter, without having a valid permit, certificate or registration as
required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this chapter or by any
code adopted by this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of
this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any
of the officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1986 Code § 4-70; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Relief In Courts: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter
shall interfere with the right of the city also to the proper courts of the
state for a mandamus, and injunction or other appropriate action against such
person. (1986 Code § 4-71)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-2-2: Plumbing Inspector
9-2-3: Plumbing Permits; Fees
9-2-4: Inspection Fees
9-2-5: Plumbing Contractors And Journeymen
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The International Plumbing Code, 2015 edition, or most
current edition thereafter, as may be enacted from time to time, to be cited as
the "International Plumbing Code", be and the same is hereby adopted as the
Plumbing Code of the City of Vinita, Oklahoma. (Ord. 3655, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-
20-2017)
   B.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to engage in the occupation or business of plumbing within the City
without complying with the International Plumbing Code adopted in subsection A
of this section, and any person, firm or corporation engaging in the occupation
or business of plumbing within the City without complying with said Code and
other plumbing ordinances of the City shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(1986 Code § 4-11; amd. Ord. 3041, 5-21-1996)
   C.   Copies On File: At least one (1) printed copy of the International
Plumbing Code is on file in the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer of the
City of Vinita and is available for inspection by the general public. (Ord.
3322, 6-20-2006)
9-2-2: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation:
      1.   There is hereby created the employment position of plumbing
inspector. The plumbing inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the City Council, and duties of the plumbing inspector under this
Title may be assigned to the City’s authorized agents or third-party
contractors.
      2.   The compensation of the plumbing inspector shall be upon such terms
and conditions as the City Council shall approve by motion or resolution.
   B.   Qualifications: The plumbing inspector, and any assistant plumbing
inspector, shall have at least a journeyman plumber's license and three (3)
years' experience in plumbing and sewer construction work. Said inspector shall
not be interested either directly or indirectly in any firm or corporation
engaged in the plumbing business within the City.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities: The plumbing inspector shall devote such
time as is necessary to administer the provisions of this section and shall
perform the following duties:
      1.   Examine and check plans and specifications, drawings, descriptions
or diagrams necessary to show clearly the character, kind and extent of work
covered by applications for a permit; and, upon approval thereof, the City
Clerk shall issue the permits applied for.
      2.   Administer and enforce provisions of the ordinances relative
thereto. Inspect all plumbing and drainage work including, but not limited to:
sewer, water and natural gas which may be authorized by any permit to assure
compliance with the provisions of the ordinances and approving or condemning
said work in whole or in part.
      3.   Issue a certificate of approval for any work he has approved.
      4.   Condemn or reject all work done or being done or materials used or
being used which do not in all respects comply with the provisions of the
ordinances.
      5.   Order changes in workmanship and materials essential to obtain
compliance with all the provisions of the ordinances relating thereto.
      6.   Investigate any construction or work regulated by the ordinances
pertaining to plumbing and issue such notices and orders as provided for by
ordinance.
      7.   Keep a complete record of all of the transactions of his office.
      8.   Transfer all fees collected by plumbing inspector, and due to the
City, to the Office of the City Clerk.
   D.   Temporary Inspector: The water and sewer superintendent of the city is
hereby appointed temporary plumbing inspector and is authorized to carry out
the functions of the office of plumbing inspector during any temporary absence
of the inspector and any temporary vacancy in such office. (1986 Code § 4-9;
amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 3822, 9-19-2023)
9-2-3: PLUMBING PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No plumbing work shall be undertaken within the city
until a plumbing permit has been obtained from the city clerk.
   B.   Fees: The fees to be paid for plumbing permits shall be determined by
the city council by motion or resolution. (1986 Code § 4-19)
9-2-4: INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: All fees established pursuant to this Title shall be
established by the City Council by motion or resolution and shall be posted in
the Office of the City Clerk.
   B.   Amendment: The schedule of fees pursuant to this Title may be amended
at any time by the City Council by motion or resolution. (1986 Code § 4-9; amd.
2005 Code; Ord. 3822, 9-19-2023)
9-2-5: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS AND JOURNEYMEN:
   A.   Registration; Proof Of Compliance: No person, firm or corporation shall
engage in business as a plumbing contractor, nor shall any person work as a
journeyman plumber, until said person, firm or corporation has become properly
registered with the city, and has furnished the city satisfactory evidence of
compliance with the laws of the state of Oklahoma, and satisfactory evidence of
responsibility and skill as provided by the ordinances of the city. (1986 Code
§ 4-13)
   B.   Plumbing Contractors:
      1.   Registration; Compliance: Each and every person, firm or corporation
desiring to do business as a plumbing contractor shall be required to register
in the office of the city clerk, shall furnish proof of compliance with state
law, and shall furnish a bond to the city, to be approved by the city clerk, in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned that the principal will
restore with the same material and in the same manner as before, all streets,
alleys, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters in any way disturbed by said principal,
and will save the city harmless from any and all damages resulting from any act
or omission of the principal, and also that the principal will obey all laws
and ordinances of the city relating to plumbers and plumbing work. (1986 Code §
4-14)
      2.   Fees; Term; Renewal:
         a.   Upon compliance with the foregoing requirements, and payment of
the fee hereinafter specified, the applicant shall be registered by the city
clerk. The registration shall expire at the end of the fiscal year, but may be
renewed from year to year. The initial registration fee shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and the annual renewal fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
(1986 Code § 4-14; amd. 2005 Code)
         b.   Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws, and the same
bond, as required upon initial registration. In the case of plumbing
contractors holding licenses in good standing and previously issued by the city
under prior provisions of law, registration shall be deemed a renewal, and not
an initial registration.
      3.   Time Limit For Renewal: No registration shall be renewed after the
expiration of ninety (90) days from the end of the fiscal year. After July 15
each year, no work permit shall be issued to, nor any plumbing inspection made
for, any plumbing contractor whose registration has not been renewed, unless
written permission is obtained from the plumbing inspector and approved by the
mayor and city council. (1986 Code § 4-14)
   C.   Journeyman Plumbers:
      1.   Registration; Fee: Journeyman plumbers working within the city or on
premises connected or to be connected with the city sewer or water system shall
be required to be registered with the city clerk, and the charge for such
registration, which shall be paid by the plumbing contractor employing such
journeyman plumber, shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first year, and
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each annual renewal thereof. (Ord. 3317, 6-6-2006)
      2.   Revocation Of Registration; Appeal: For good and sufficient cause,
the plumbing inspector may revoke the registration of any journeyman plumber,
and thereafter he shall not be permitted to do business or work as a journeyman
plumber within the city or on premises connected or to be connected with the
city water or sewer system. In the event of such revocation, the holder of such
registration may appeal to the city council and the action of the city council
thereon shall be final. (1986 Code § 4-16)
      3.   Registration Nontransferable: No registration issued to a journeyman
plumber shall ever be transferred, assigned or loaned to any other person.
(1986 Code § 4-17)
      4.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any journeyman plumber to do
plumbing work within the corporate limits of the city unless such work is done
by employment of such journeyman plumber by a plumbing contractor or master
plumber. All plumbing work done within the corporate limits of the city, from
and after the effective date hereof, shall be done under contract or agreement
with a plumbing contractor, or master plumber and any such plumbing work done
by a journeyman plumber within the corporate limits of the city shall be under
employment by a plumbing contractor. Should any journeyman plumber perform
plumbing work within the corporate limits of the city, except under employment
by a plumbing contractor, such shall be deemed an offense and a violation of
this section. (1986 Code § 4-18)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE AND INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-3-2: Electrical Inspector
9-3-3: Electrical Equipment
9-3-4: Electrical Work; Permits And Fees
9-3-5: Connections; Certificate Of Approval
9-3-6: Inspection Of Work
9-3-7: Electricians And Contractors; Licenses And Fees
9-3-8: Penalty
9-3-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Compliance With National Electrical Code; Modifications: The following
minimum requirements for the installation and repairing of electrical wiring
and apparatus in the City shall be in conformance with the 2014 edition of
National Electrical Code or most current edition thereafter, as may be modified
from time to time, and in addition:
      1.   Minimum wire size shall be not less than no. 12, except for control
wiring.
      2.   No meter bases shall be used as junction boxes.
      3.   Minimum height of any portion of the service drop (drip loop) will
be a minimum of ten feet (10').
      4.   When additional circuits are added, a larger panel shall be
installed in place of using one (1) or more additional panels (inspector must
approve any other system before installation).
      5.   Any service panel which is not back to back with service meters
shall have a main disconnect switch before entering building. No circuit panel
shall be installed in any closet or where combustible materials are stored.
(Ord. 3656, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-20-2017)
   B.   Electrical Code Adopted; Copies On File: The rules and regulations set
forth in the 2002 edition of the National Electrical Code, as amended from time
to time, recommended by the National Fire Protection Association and being the
standard of the National Board of Fire Underwriters for electrical wiring and
apparatus, as amended from time to time, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the Office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted as a part hereof to the
same extent as if set out herein in full, and all electrical construction, and
all material and appliances used in connection with electrical work, and the
operation and arrangement of all electrical apparatus shall be in conformity
with such rules and regulations, except wherein the same differ from
regulations required by the City of Vinita Electrical Code.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Electrical Wiring For Refrigerators: As a specific exception to the
2002 National Electrical Code, as may be amended from time to time, it shall be
a requirement that there be a separate electrical current for any refrigerator
installed in any dwelling or building and said current shall have no other
outlets or connections. (Ord. 3041, 5-21-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Copper Wiring: Copper wiring shall be used inside the structure up
to and even with the riser to where it connects with the utility company. (Ord.
3041, 5-21-1996)
9-3-2: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: It is necessary to create the office of electrical
inspector to regulate the installation of all electrical wiring and apparatus
within the City, and it shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to
inspect all electrical wiring and apparatus as provided in this chapter. The
Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, is hereby vested with the
authority to appoint a competent inspector to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, and duties of the electrical inspector in this Title may be assigned
to the City’s authorized agents or third-party contractors.
   B.   Supervision Of Wires, Poles:
      1.   The electrical inspector is hereby authorized and directed to have
general supervision over the placing, stringing, or attaching telegraph,
telephone, electric light or other wires, and the placing of all poles and
appliances so as to prevent fire, accident or injury to persons or property,
and to cause all such wires and electric lights to be so placed, constructed
and guarded as not to cause fire, accident or endanger the life or property of
any person. All such lights and such wire or electrical apparatus now existing,
as well as those hereafter constructed and placed, shall be subject to such
supervision.
      2.   Whenever any electric wiring or other electrical apparatus becomes
unsafe or in a defective or insecure condition, the inspector shall notify the
owner, agents or tenants. On failure to repair or remove the defective wiring
or apparatus within twenty four (24) hours, or such time as the electrical
inspector may deem necessary, the inspector shall cause service to be
suspended. (1986 Code § 4-32)
   C.   Special Rulings: The electrical inspector shall have the authority to
make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life
and property and the improvement of electrical installations; but in all cases,
persons engaged in the installing of electrical equipment and holding an
electrical license must be notified in writing of these decisions. (1986 Code §
4-33; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Right Of Entry: The electrical inspector, in the discharge of his
duties, may enter any building or premises at any reasonable time, and upon the
refusal of the owner, agent, or occupant to allow such inspections, owner,
agent, or occupant shall be deemed guilty of an offense. (1986 Code §§ 4-27, 4-
32, 4-33, 4-34; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 3822, 9-19-2023)
9-3-3: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Defined: The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter,
refers to electrical conductors, metallic raceways, fitting, devices, fixtures,
appliances, apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or
description, to be installed within or on any building or structure. (1986 Code
§ 4-24)
   B.   Compliance With Approved Standards:
      1.   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state of Oklahoma and
any orders, rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with
approved electrical standards for safety to persons or to property.
      2.   Unless by this chapter, by a statute of the state of Oklahoma, or
any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type
or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use,
conformity with the standards of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., shall be
prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to
persons or to property. (1986 Code § 4-25)
9-3-4: ELECTRICAL WORK; PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: All persons, firms and corporations shall, before
beginning any electrical work or any additions to be made to old wiring, make
written application for permit to the electrical inspector, and shall pay the
city clerk the inspection fee prescribed by the city council by motion or
resolution. (1986 Code § 4-28; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Temporary Permits: When, for good and sufficient cause, it is necessary
to have electricity on any installation before final certificate can be issued,
the electrical inspector may issue a temporary permit; provided, that all the
parts to which current is applied be in a safe and satisfactory condition.
Provided further that before said temporary permit is issued, the party
receiving the same shall pay the city clerk twenty dollars ($20.00), said
permit to run for thirty (30) days. If at the end of thirty (30) days the
installation is still incomplete, another permit must be taken out for the next
thirty (30) days, and for each succeeding thirty (30) days; however, each said
permit shall only be granted upon a showing of good and sufficient cause. (1986
Code § 4-29; amd. 2005 Code)
9-3-5: CONNECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
It shall be unlawful for any electric light, heat, or power company to make any
electrical connection to any building until a certificate stating that the
electric wiring has been approved, has been issued by the electrical inspector.
All firms, corporations, or individuals, whether operating under a regular
franchise granted by the city or not, shall, upon written notice from the
inspector, disconnect from any circuit designated by said notice and shall not
reconnect to said installation except upon written notice from the inspector.
(1986 Code § 4-30)
9-3-6: INSPECTION OF WORK:
   A.   Interference With Wiring: It shall be unlawful for all owners,
contractors, or workmen not qualified for doing all electrical wiring to, in
any manner, interfere with any electrical wiring in or on any building
whatsoever. If, in any case, the wiring is in such a position to interfere with
the completion of the building as called for by the plans, the wiring
contractor must be notified to have it changed.
   B.   Placement Of Wood, Metal: No wood or metal work shall be placed within
one inch (1") of any electrical conductor.
   C.   Notice Of Inspection; Tag: On inspecting the electrical wiring of any
building, the inspector shall leave a notice in the form of a tag or label
attached to the service. This notice shall clearly state whether the wiring is
approved or is to be kept open for corrections, and no workman shall lathe,
seal, or in any manner conceal any electrical wiring until he knows positively
that it has been approved.
   D.   Inspection; Time Limit: The inspector must in all cases inspect any
electrical wiring within the corporate limits of the city within forty eight
(48) hours of the receipt of the notice from the electric wiring contractor
that the work is completed (holidays, Saturdays and Sundays not included in
this time).
   E.   Completion Of Work: All steamfitting, furnace work, gas fittings and
telephone wiring shall be completed, and no wiring shall be considered as
complete until the above work referred to is in place. (1986 Code § 4-31)
9-3-7: ELECTRICIANS AND CONTRACTORS; LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Electricians; License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage
in the business, trade, or vocation of electrical contractor or journeyman
electrician without a license as such secured from the electrical inspector.
(1986 Code § 4-35)
   B.   Electrical Contractors; License Fees:
      1.   The annual license fee for electrical contractors for any part of
any fiscal year, said fiscal year beginning on July 1, shall be the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00); provided however, that any bona fide resident of the
city, or resident within three (3) miles of the corporate limits of the city,
doing electrical contracting business within the city, or having held during
the past fiscal year a license to do electrical contracting work in the city,
shall have the right to renew such license upon the payment of fifty dollars
($50.00) per annum for the current fiscal year and each fiscal year hereafter.
      2.   Any resident of the city, or a resident within three (3) miles of
the corporate limits of the city, and being fully qualified, not having held
such a license during the past fiscal year, may acquire a new license; and the
license fee for the first fiscal year thereof shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00), and such license may be renewed each successive fiscal year
thereafter for fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum. All such licenses shall be
issued only to those fully qualified under the existing electrical ordinances
applicable thereto, enacted by the city. (1986 Code § 4-36)
   C.   Journeyman Electrician; License Fee: Journeyman electricians working
within the city shall be required to be registered with the city clerk, and the
charge for such registration, which shall be paid by the electrical contractor
employing such journeyman electrician, shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for the
first year, and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each annual renewal thereof. (Ord.
3369, 9-18-2007)
   D.   Exception To License Requirement: For the installation of bell,
telephone, or signal systems not using over twelve (12) volts, no license will
be required; but the installation of same must comply with all other
requirements of the ordinances of the city. (1986 Code § 4-39)
   E.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the city council may
revoke the license of an electrical contractor or of a journeyman electrician
for any of the following causes:
         a.   Serious or repeated violations of the laws, ordinances, or other
regulations relating to electrical installations;
         b.   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the electrical trade
or business;
         c.   Poor workmanship or service; or
         d.   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures, or
equipment.
      2.   A request that the license be revoked may be presented to the city
council by the electrical inspector or by an aggrieved person. (1986 Code § 4-
40)
9-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-4-2: Penalty
9-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition, or most
current edition thereafter enacted, as may be amended from time to time, to be
cited as "the International Mechanical Code", is hereby adopted as the
Mechanical Code for the City of Vinita, Oklahoma. (Ord. 3657, 6-20-2017, eff.
6-20-2017)
   B.   Copies On File: At least three (3) printed copies of the International
Mechanical Code are on file in the Office of the City Clerk and are available
for inspection by the general public. (2005 Code)
9-4-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of Fire Code
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
   A.   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the construction
of new structures, refurbishing of existing structures and correcting
construction deficiencies within the City limits of Vinita, or that area that
may be incorporated into the City limits of Vinita, Oklahoma, the City Council
of the City of Vinita hereby adopts the International Fire Code, 2015 edition
or most current edition thereafter enacted, and the National Fire Code 2016
edition or most current edition thereafter enacted, save and except such
portions as may be deleted, modified or amended by this Code. (Ord. 3658, 6-20-
2017, eff. 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 6
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-6-2: Amendments
9-6-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 edition or most current edition
thereafter enacted, and as hereafter amended from time to time, including
appendix chapters A through D, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the City of Vinita, in the
State of Oklahoma, for the purpose of regulating and governing fuel gas systems
and gas fired appliances as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in
the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 3659, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-20-2017)
9-6-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: The city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
Section 106.5.2. Amend in its entirety by substituting the following: The fees
for work shall be as established, approved, adopted and amended from time to
time by a resolution of the city council of the city of Vinita.
Section 106.5.3. Insert: 60%, in section 106.5.3.2; Insert: 75%, in section
106.5.3.3.
Section 108.4. Amend first sentence in section 108.4 to read as follows, to
wit: "shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment".
Section 108.5. Amend last sentence in section 108.5 to read as follows to wit:
"shall be liable for a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) or more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00)".
(Ord. 3257, 12-7-2004)
CHAPTER 7
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Compliance Required; License And Permit
9-7-2: Use In Homes Prohibited
9-7-3: Penalty
9-7-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; LICENSE AND PERMIT:
   A.   Compliance: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install, or repair any system, container,
apparatus, or appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing,
or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle, or store
such gas, unless such person has complied with and complies with all provisions
of the laws and ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit
which may be required by State law. All storage of bulk liquefied petroleum
gases shall be done in accordance with the 2015 edition of the International
Fuel Gas Code, or the most current edition thereafter enacted, NFPA 58 and all
other applicable codes. (Ord. 3660, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-20-2017)
   B.   State Regulations: The rules and regulations, current edition adopted
by the Oklahoma Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect
within the City; and any violation of these rules and regulations shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the City and shall be punished
accordingly. (1986 Code § 4-22)
9-7-2: USE IN HOMES PROHIBITED:
Liquefied petroleum gas shall not be used as a fuel for homes, built on site or
mobile homes, and other buildings within the City limits of Vinita, Oklahoma,
unless natural gas service is not available within two hundred feet (200') of
the property line of the lot or tract upon which said home, mobile home or
other building is located. This shall not prohibit the use of liquefied
petroleum gas for home cooking equipment used outdoors with no larger than
twenty (20) pound cylinder, or the use of handheld torches, or use on vehicles
(such as forklifts, etc.) with cylinder originally designed for such vehicle.
All replacement tanks shall be stored in approved outside storage enclosures,
except as may be approved by the International Fuel Gas Code, NFPA 58 or other
applicable codes. (Ord. 3333, 11-21-2006)
9-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND PARKS 1
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Park License Requirements
9-8-3: Park License Fees
9-8-4: Inspection Of Parks
9-8-5: Violation Notices; Hearings And Orders
9-8-6: Nonresidential Mobile Trailers
9-8-7: Park Location, Space And General Layout
9-8-8: Service Building For Travel Trailer Parks
9-8-9: Sewage Disposal
9-8-10: Water Supply
9-8-11: Refuse Disposal
9-8-12: Insect And Rodent Control
9-8-13: Electricity; Exterior Lighting
9-8-14: Fuel Storage Tank Piping
9-8-15: Littering Park Areas; Water; Fires
9-8-16: Park Or Mobile Home Alterations And Additions
9-8-17: Registration Of Owners And Occupants
9-8-18: Dilapidated Mobile Homes And Travel Trailers
9-8-19: Minimum Housing Regulations
9-8-20: Mobile Home Subdivisions
9-8-21: Park Supervision
9-8-22: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-7B-8 of this code.
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and a
bath or shower. For the purpose of regulation under this chapter, a "dependent
mobile home" shall be considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless
otherwise specified.
FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER: Any mobile home or travel trailer
not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park, respectively,
licensed by the city of Vinita, or in an approved mobile home subdivision.
HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated health authority of the city of Vinita,
or his authorized representative.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which meets the minimum gross floor area
or habitable space requirement as provided in subsection
9-8-19B of this chapter and which has a flush toilet and a bath or shower.
Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this chapter, the term "mobile home"
shall mean an independent mobile home.
INSPECTION OFFICER: The building inspector of the city of Vinita, or his
authorized agent.
LICENSEE: Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park under
the provisions of this chapter.
MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling designed for transportation on streets
and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailer, both highway and
rail, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, connection to
utilities, and similar operations. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of
this chapter, the term "mobile home" shall refer to an "independent mobile
home" as defined in this section.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home, and not located on a mobile home sales lot.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and mobile home lots are
sold for occupancy.
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics of
either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
PARK: A mobile home park and/or travel trailer park.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provision of this chapter.
PERSON: Natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM OR PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM: Any such system built and owned by,
or dedicated to and accepted by, the city of Vinita. All other such systems are
private.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men and/
or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities as required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
SUBDIVISION: Mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
TRAVEL TRAILER: All vehicles or portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use, including tent trailers and motor driven vehicles not included in
the definition of "independent mobile home". For purpose of regulation under
this chapter, a "dependent mobile home" shall be considered to be the same as a
travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any plot of ground on which two (2) or more travel
trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless
of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE: A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer. (1986 Code § 4-41)
9-8-2: PARK LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Posting:
      1.   License Issuance; Approval: It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, maintain or operate any mobile home park or travel trailer park
within the limits of the city unless he holds a valid license issued annually
by the city clerk, with the approval of the inspection officer and health
officer of the city, in the name of such person for the specific mobile home
park. (1986 Code § 4-42)
      2.   Posting Of License: The license certificate shall be conspicuously
posted in the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the
travel trailer park at all times. (1986 Code § 4-63)
   B.   Application For License; Notice Of Sale:
      1.   Application: Application shall be made to the city clerk who shall
issue a license, upon compliance by the applicant with all pertinent provisions
of this and other ordinances and regulations of the city.
      2.   Notice Of Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership: Every person holding such a
license shall notify the city clerk in writing within twenty four (24) hours
after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of interest in
or control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall include the name and
address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such mobile
home park or travel trailer park.
   C.   Original License Application, Contents: Application for original
licenses shall be in writing signed by the applicant, and accompanied by an
affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the application, and shall
contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park.
      3.   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      4.   Such further information as may be requested by the inspection
officer and/or health officer.
   D.   Renewal Licenses; Contents Of Application: Applications for renewals of
licenses shall be made in writing by the holder of the license and shall
contain the following:
      1.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
      2.   Other information requested by the inspection officer and/or health
officer.
   E.   Park Plan: A complete plan, as required by subsection C3 of this
section for the purpose of obtaining a license to be issued, shall show:
      1.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
      2.   The number, locations, and size of all mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces.
      3.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational areas.
      4.   The locations of service buildings and other proposed structures.
      5.   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities.
      6.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   F.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action; License Suspension:
      1.   Whenever the health officer and/or inspection officer finds
conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, such officer shall give notice in writing to the person to
whom the license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be
corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the
license will be suspended.
      2.   At the end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the
inspection officer and/or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall suspend the license
and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license
was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension such person shall cease
operation of such park, except as provided in subsection
9-8-5C of this chapter.
   G.   Request For Hearing: Any person whose permit has been denied,
suspended, or who has received notice from the inspection officer and/or health
officer that his permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or
practices at the park are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the city council; provided, that when no petition for such
hearing shall have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which
notice of suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to have been
automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period.
   H.   Exception; Concrete Pads: Provided, however, that mobile home parks and
travel trailer parks in existence upon the effective date of this chapter which
have concrete pads indicating the location of mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces need not comply with those sections of this chapter which would
require the moving of concrete pads. They must, however, comply with all other
requirements. In addition, any park expansion shall be in full compliance with
provisions of this chapter. (1986 Code § 4-42)
9-8-3: PARK LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Initial Fee: The city clerk shall charge and collect for such mobile
home park and/or travel trailer park an initial license of thirty dollars
($30.00) per park. The initial license shall expire one year from the date of
issue.
   B.   Renewal Fee: A charge of twenty dollars ($20.00) per park shall be made
for renewals of licenses. (1986 Code § 4-43)
9-8-4: INSPECTION OF PARKS:
   A.   Authority Of City: The inspection officer and/or health officer is
hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition
of mobile home parks and travel trailer parks located within the city in order
to perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of
mobile home parks and of the general public.
   B.   Outside Of Premises: The inspection officer and/or health officer shall
have the power to inspect the outside premises of private or public property
for the purposes of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the
enforcement of this chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   C.   Register Of Occupants: The inspection officer and/or health officer
shall have the power to inspect the register containing a record of all mobile
homes and occupants using the park.
   D.   Occupants Allow Access: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a
park to give the owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of
such mobile home park or travel trailer park or their premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with this chapter, or with any lawful regulations adopted
thereunder, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (1986 Code § 4-44)
9-8-5: VIOLATION NOTICES; HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice: Whenever the inspection officer and/or health
officer determines that violations of pertinent regulations exist, the
inspection officer shall notify the licensee or permittee of such alleged
violation. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations.
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any action required.
      5.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon the
owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his last
address.
   B.   Notice Of License Suspension:
      1.   Whenever the health officer in company of the inspection officer
finds conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the inspection officer shall give notice in writing
to the person to whom the license was issued, that unless such conditions or
practices be corrected with a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice, the license will be suspended.
      2.   At the end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the
inspection officer and/or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the inspection officer shall
suspend the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person
to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such park, except as provided in subsection C
of this section.
   C.   Request For Hearing: Any person affected by any notice issued under
this chapter, or resulting regulations, may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the zoning board of adjustment; provided, that
such person shall file with the inspection officer a written request for such
hearing and setting forth briefly the grounds for such request within ten (10)
days after the day the notice was served; provided that, when no request for
such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on
which notice of suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to have
been automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period. The
filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of permits and
licenses, except in cases of orders issued under subsection F of this section.
The hearing shall be held by the zoning board of adjustment at the earliest
possible date.
   D.   Findings Of Board; Issuance Of Order: After such hearing, the
inspection officer shall compile the findings of the zoning board of adjustment
as to compliance with this chapter and pursuant regulations and shall issue an
order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior notice, which
shall be served as provided in subsection A of this section. Upon failure to
comply with such order, the permit of the mobile home park or travel trailer
park shall be revoked.
   E.   Appeal To District Court: Appeals from decisions of the zoning board of
adjustment shall be to the district court.
   F.   Emergency Requiring Immediate Action: Whenever the inspection officer
and/or health officer finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate
action to protect the public health, the inspection officer may, without notice
or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem it necessary to meet the
emergency, including the suspension of the permit. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately,
but upon petition to the city council, shall be afforded a hearing at the next
regular meeting even if the agenda has been completed. (1986 Code § 4-45)
9-8-6: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS:
   A.   License Required: No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted
in the city unless a license for its operation is issued by the inspection
office. Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the
permit. No license shall be issued for the use which would violate any city,
state, or federal ordinance, law, or regulation. (1986 Code § 4-47)
   B.   License Fee: A quarterly fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged
for each nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on January
31, April 30, July 31, or October 31, each year, and be renewable on the first
day of each succeeding quarter year thereafter. (1986 Code § 4-47; amd. 2005
Code)
   C.   Contractors On Construction Projects: Operation of nonresidential
trailers by contractors on construction projects for which building permits
have been issued or which are otherwise approved by government units is
permitted during the term of such construction project without issuance of a
license.
   D.   Permanent Location Prohibited: This section is not to be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
trailer in the city. (1986 Code § 4-47)
9-8-7: PARK LOCATION, SPACE AND GENERAL LAYOUT:
   A.   Types Of Parks: Parks shall be of three (3) types: 1) mobile home
parks; 2) travel trailer parks; and 3) mixed mobile home and travel trailer
parks. No dependent travel trailer shall be located in a mobile home park and
used for occupancy. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for
mobile homes and for travel trailers; no mobile home shall be permitted in the
travel trailer sector; and no travel trailer shall be permitted in the mobile
home sector.
   B.   Drainage: All mobile home parks shall be located on a well drained
site, properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools
of water. Drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   C.   Area: The minimum area of any park shall be two (2) acres. However,
parks in existence on the effective date of this chapter may continue to
operate with less than two (2) acres, but, if the park is to be expanded, it
must at that time have a minimum area of two (2) acres.
   D.   Density Computations:
      1.   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten (10)
mobile homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than fifteen
(15) travel trailers per gross acre for a travel trailer park. Area used for
sewage treatment facilities shall not be included in density computations.
      2.   Mobile home spaces shall be at least thirty feet (30') wide where
pads are closed to driveways. Travel trailer spaces shall be at least twenty
five feet (25') wide where travel trailers are located closest to the driveway.
   E.   Mobile Home And Trailer Spaces: Every mobile home space and travel
trailer space shall be clearly defined. Mobile homes and travel trailers shall
be parked in such spaces that at the nearest point they shall be twenty five
feet (25') from the service road, ten feet (10') from the rear lot line, and at
least twenty feet (20') from any other mobile home or travel trailer.
   F.   Proximity To Street: It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or
travel trailer less than twenty five feet (25') from any public street or
highway right of way or so that any part of such mobile home or travel trailer
will obstruct any roadway or walkway of such park.
   G.   Parking In Proper Space: It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile home
to occupy a travel trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile home
space, and for any mobile home or travel trailer to be located in a park unless
in a designated mobile home space or travel trailer space.
   H.   Driveways; Parking Spaces: All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a
sealed surface driveway of not less than twenty feet (20') in width if on
street parking is prohibited, and twenty six feet (26') in width if on street
parking is permitted on one side of the street only. Driveways must have
unobstructed access to a public street or highway. (1986 Code § 4-48)
      1.   In mobile home parks or travel trailer parks existing at the
effective date of this chapter, parking on or adjacent to the street within the
park is permissible so long as it does not obstruct free movements of traffic.
Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the
city planning commission with final appeal to the city council. If, upon final
appeal before the city council, it is determined by the council that a safety
hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home park or travel trailer park
concerned will be required to comply with subsection H2 of this section. (1986
Code § 4-48; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   In new mobile home parks, at least two (2) clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each mobile home space either on or adjacent to the
mobile home space. In new travel trailer parks, at least one parking space
shall be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space.
   I.   Clothes Drying Spaces, Facilities:
      1.   Outside drying spaces or other clothes drying facilities shall be
provided in every mobile home park or travel trailer park. Mobile home parks
shall have at least one hundred (100) linear feet of clothes drying line or one
mechanical clothes drying unit in good condition; mechanical units shall be
located in a service building.
      2.   Travel trailer parks and mixed parks shall have at least twenty five
(25) linear feet of outdoor clothes drying line for each travel trailer space
or one mechanical clothes drying unit for the first ten (10) travel trailer
spaces or any fraction thereof and an additional unit for each ten (10)
additional trailer spaces or fraction thereof.
   J.   Surfacing Of Driveways, Walkways: All driveways and walkways within a
park shall be at least asphalt-oil-rock sealed surface.
   K.   Ingress And Egress:
      1.   In the Vinita city limits area, new mobile home parks should abut
and have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary
thoroughfare.
      2.   Travel trailer parks and mixed parks in the Vinita city limits area
should abut and have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a
primary thoroughfare.
   L.   Screening Of Landscaping: All mobile home parks shall provide a
suitable screening of landscaping, and also opaque fencing shall be installed
where abutting existing single-family residential areas. (1986 Code § 4-48)
9-8-8: SERVICE BUILDING FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   Building Required: Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at
least one service building adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures
and other sanitary facilities as required in this chapter. No service building
shall contain less than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one
lavatory and shower or bathtub for each sex, and one laundry tray. All sanitary
facilities required by section
9-8-9 of this chapter shall be located in a service building.
   B.   Toilet And Shower Facilities: Each park accommodating travel trailers
shall provide the following:
      1.   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two (2)
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten (10) travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten (10), not less than one
additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten (10) additional
travel trailers or fractional number thereof.
      2.   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two (2)
flush toilets for the first six (6) travel trailer spaces or any less number
thereof, and for travel trailer spaces in excess of six (6), not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten (10) additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof in excess of six (6).
      3.   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two (2) lavatories and
two (2) showers or bathtubs with individual dressing accommodations for the
first ten (10) travel trailer spaces or any less number thereof, and for travel
trailer spaces in excess of ten (10), not less than one additional lavatory and
one additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations for
every ten (10) additional travel trailer spaces or fractional number thereof.
      4.   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
      5.   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      6.   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bedpans and other containers
of human excreta or a slop sink with at least a three inch (3") trap and an
adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing such bedpans or containers.
   C.   Distance From Trailer Spaces: Travel trailer spaces shall not be more
than two hundred feet (200') from a service building.
   D.   Requirements For Service Buildings: Service buildings shall:
      1.   Be located twenty five feet (25') or more from any travel trailer
space.
      2.   Be of permanent construction, and be adequately lighted.
      3.   Be of moisture resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing.
      4.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather, and to supply adequate
hot water during time of peak demands.
      5.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   E.   Laundry Facilities: Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio
of one laundry unit to every thirty (30) travel trailer spaces and shall be in
a separate soundproof room of a service building or in a separate building. A
laundry unit shall consist of not less than one clothes washing machine and one
clothes drying machine.
   F.   Maintenance; Sanitation: All service buildings and the grounds of the
park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any
condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the public or
constitute a menace. (1986 Code § 4-49)
9-8-9: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Discharge To Public Or Private System: Waste from showers, bathtubs,
flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop sinks and laundries in service and
other buildings within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer and
disposal plant, septic tank system or private sewer and lagoon system of such
construction and in such manner as approved by the Oklahoma state health
department and in accordance with all applicable ordinances of the city.
   B.   Connection Requirements: Each mobile home space shall be provided with
at least a four inch (4") sewer connection at least four inches (4") above the
surface of the ground. The sewer connection should be protected by a concrete
collar at least four inches (4") thick and have a minimum outside diameter of
twenty four inches (24"). The sewer connection shall be fitted with a standard
ferrule and close nipple and provided with a screw cap. Connection between the
mobile home drain and the sewer must be watertight and self-draining. Mobile
homes with fixtures from which back siphonage may occur shall not be connected
to the park's water system until the defect has been corrected.
   C.   Availability Of Public Sewer: In the event that a public sewer system
is or becomes available within three hundred feet (300') of a mobile home park
or travel trailer park, connection must be made to the public system within one
hundred eighty (180) days.
   D.   Design; Location: The design of private sewage treatment facilities
shall be based on the maximum capacity of the park. Effluent from sewage
treatment facilities shall not be discharged into any watershed. The disposal
facilities shall be located where they will not create a nuisance or health
hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner or occupants of any adjacent
property. The Oklahoma state health department must approve the type of
treatment proposed and the design of every disposal facility and sewer system
prior to construction.
   E.   Connection To System Or Dumping In Receptacle: Every mobile home
occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into the park sewerage system and
shall dump any accumulated waste into the system. Every dependent trailer shall
dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle provided in the travel trailer
park upon entering and upon leaving the park. Such receptacles must be approved
by the Oklahoma state health department. Any other dump of accumulated waste
within the city is prohibited.
   F.   Monthly Sewerage Charge; Notify City Of Usage:
      1.   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile
home or travel trailer capacity of the park.
      2.   The park operator shall, by the tenth of each month, notify the city
clerk or the utility office of the maximum number of mobile home spaces in use
at any one time during the previous month. The city clerk shall then adjust the
sewerage fee to the actual use of the park. Should the park operator fail to
notify the city clerk of the prior month's actual usage of trailer or mobile
home spaces, the sewerage fee shall be levied on the maximum capacity of the
park.
   G.   Watertight Connections; Maintenance: Sewer connections shall be
watertight. Park licensees shall maintain trailer and mobile home connections
to sewer and water systems in good condition and be responsible that there is
no sewerage or water leakage on the park premises. (1986 Code § 4-50)
9-8-10: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Potable Supply Required; Capacity:
      1.   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of two hundred fifty
(250) gallons per day per mobile home space.
      2.   Where a public supply of water of such quality is available within
three hundred feet (300') or becomes available within three hundred feet
(300'), connection shall be made thereto within one hundred eighty (180) days,
and its supply shall be used exclusively.
      3.   Where private water supplies must be developed, the health officer
must approve the location, construction, and development of both the water well
and pipe system and connections. No other private source of water shall be
used.
   B.   Connection Piping: The water system of the mobile home park shall be
connected by pipes to all buildings and mobile home spaces. Each mobile home
shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches (4") above the
ground. An adequate supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the
service buildings for all bathing, washing, cleansing, and laundry facilities.
   C.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: All water piping shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local law; the water
piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or questionable water
supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of backflow or
backsiphonage. All water connections shall be weathertight.
   D.   Drinking Fountains: Where drinking fountains are provided for public
use, they shall be of a type and in locations approved by the health officer.
   E.   Individual Service Connections: Individual water service connections
which are provided for direct use by mobile homes or travel trailers shall be
of such construction so that they will not be damaged by the parking of such
mobile homes or travel trailers. The park system shall be adequate to provide
twenty (20) pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile home or travel
trailer connections.
   F.   Travel Trailer Reservoirs: Provisions shall be made within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of such travel trailer space to supply water for travel
trailer reservoirs.
   G.   Well Casings; Machinery: No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery, or
suction pipes shall be located in any pit, room or space extending belowground
level, nor in any room or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise
enclosed, unless such rooms, whether aboveground or belowground, have free
drainage by gravity to the surface. All floors shall be watertight, and sloped
from the pump pedestal to the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet
(2') from the well in all directions. The pedestal shall not be less than
twelve inches (12") above the floor. This shall not be construed as prohibiting
submersible pumps.
   H.   Water Storage Reservoirs: All water storage reservoirs shall be
watertight and constructed of impervious material; all overflow and vents of
such reservoirs shall be effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited.
Manholes shall be constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the
entrance of contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not
connect to any pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   I.   Underground Waste Cocks: Underground stop and waste cocks shall not be
installed on any connections.
   J.   Water Well Restriction: No water well shall draw water from any sands
reserved to the city for its use, except as may be otherwise permitted by
ordinances of the city. (1986 Code § 4-51)
9-8-11: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Discourage Health Hazards: The storage, collection, and disposal of
refuse in the park shall be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   B.   Container Requirements:
      1.   All refuse shall be stored by flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any
mobile home space or travel trailer space.
      2.   Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse.
   C.   Racks Or Holders For Containers:
      1.   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers.
      2.   Such container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent
containers from being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration
and to facilitate cleaning around them.
      3.   Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to racks or
holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   D.   Periodic Collection:
      1.   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly and as otherwise
required by the health officer.
      2.   Where municipal garbage collection is not available, the mobile home
park operator shall either employ a private agency or provide this service.
      3.   All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers.
   E.   Methods Of Disposal:
      1.   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available,
the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial, or
transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the health officer.
      2.   Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by
the inspection officer and in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   F.   Use Of City Service Required: When municipal refuse disposal service is
available, such service must be used. (1986 Code § 4-52)
9-8-12: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   Control Measures Required: Insect and rodent control measures to
safeguard public health as required by the inspection officer and/or health
officer shall be applied in the mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   B.   Use Of Larvicidal Solutions: Effective larvicidal solutions may be
required by the inspection officer and/or health officer for fly or mosquito
breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more permanent measures.
   C.   Insect And Weed Control: The inspection officer and/or health officer
may require the park operator to take suitable measures to control other
insects and obnoxious weeds.
   D.   Accumulations Of Debris: Accumulations of debris which may provide
harborage for rodents shall not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   E.   Rodent Control: When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to
be in the park, the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by
the inspection officer and/or health officer to exterminate them. (1986 Code §
4-53)
9-8-13: ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Outlets For Each Space:
      1.   An electrical outlet supplying at least one hundred (100) amperes
shall be provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply
with all applicable state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such
electrical outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed.
Plug receptacles shall also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply
line shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and no main power lines shall be
suspended less than eighteen feet (18') above the ground, unless otherwise
approved by the inspection officer.
      2.   This subsection shall be construed as a minimum requirement and in
no event shall be construed to contradict or repeal any other electrical code
regulations.
   B.   Streetlights: Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel
trailer parks shall be lighted with streetlights meeting the current standards
of the illuminating engineering society or one-half (1/2) candlepower,
whichever is higher. (1986 Code § 4-54)
9-8-14: FUEL STORAGE TANK PIPING:
All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes shall
be of acceptable material as determined by the inspection officer and shall be
permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage tanks or
cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside
or beneath the mobile home or less than five feet (5') from any mobile home
exit. (1986 Code § 4-55)
9-8-15: LITTERING PARK AREAS; WATER; FIRES:
   A.   Litter And Rubbish: Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish
and other flammable materials.
   B.   Frost Protected Water Riser: Where the water supply system does not
provide at least six inch (6") water mains, there shall be provided a two inch
(2") frost protected water riser within three hundred feet (300') of each
mobile home or building.
   C.   Fires In Stoves: Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking
and/or heating equipment intended for such purposes. (1986 Code § 4-56)
9-8-16: PARK OR MOBILE HOME ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS:
   A.   Plumbing And Electrical: All plumbing and electrical alterations or
repairs in the park shall be made in accordance with the applicable regulations
of the city.
   B.   Skirting Of Mobile Homes: Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but
areas enclosed by such skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a
harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
   C.   Construction Permit, Requirements:
      1.   A permit issued by the inspection officer shall be required before
any construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home takes place.
      2.   No construction or addition or alteration to the exterior of a
mobile home located in a mobile home park shall be permitted unless of the same
type of construction or materials as the mobile home affected.
      3.   All such construction, additions, or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws.
      4.   No permit shall be required for the addition of steps, canopies,
awnings, or antennas.
   D.   Storage Unit: No structure other than a mobile home shall be permitted
on a mobile home space, except one structure of not to exceed two hundred ten
(210) cubic feet to be used for storage on each space. (1986 Code § 4-57)
9-8-17: REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Register Of Owners And Occupants; Contents: Each licensee or permittee
shall keep a register containing a record of all mobile home and travel trailer
owners and occupants located within the park. The register shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is towed.
      2.   The make, model, year, and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle.
      3.   The state, territory, or country issuing such license.
      4.   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home.
      5.   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile
home.
      6.   Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be identified while in a
park space by some clear, legible, and orderly external method identification
or numbering system.
   B.   Inspection Of Register: The park shall keep the register available for
inspection at all times by law enforcement officers, public health officials,
city officials, and other officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the
information contained in the register. The register record of each occupant
registered shall not be destroyed for a period of one year following the date
of departure of the registrant from the park. (1986 Code § 4-58)
9-8-18: DILAPIDATED MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS:
Wrecked, damaged, or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not be
kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The health officer
or inspection officer shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is
damaged or dilapidated to a point where said mobile home or travel trailer is
unfit for human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever
such a determination is made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be
vacated and removed from the premises. (1986 Code § 4-59)
9-8-19: MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: Every mobile home located in either a
mobile home park, a mobile home subdivision or as a freestanding mobile home
shall meet the minimum provisions provided in this section. (1986 Code § 4-60;
amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Floor Area: Every mobile home shall contain the following minimum gross
floor area or habitable space:
      1.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for one or two (2) occupants.
      2.   One hundred (100) additional square feet for a third occupant.
      3.   Eighty (80) square feet additional for each additional occupant
thereafter.
   C.   Habitable Space: Habitable space in a mobile home shall have a minimum
ceiling height of seven feet (7') over fifty percent (50%) of the floor area,
and the floor area where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall
not be considered in computing minimum gross floor area.
   D.   Exits: A mobile home shall have a safe and unobstructed primary exit
and an emergency exit located from the primary exit.
   E.   Sleeping Rooms: Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at
least sixty (60) square feet of floor space if used by more than one person and
at least forty (40) square feet if used by one person.
   F.   Dependent Mobile Homes: Dependent mobile homes shall not be required to
have flush toilet or a bath or shower. (1986 Code § 4-60)
   G.   Travel Trailer Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to travel trailers insofar as floor area, flush toilet, bath or shower,
or ceiling height is concerned. (1986 Code § 4-60; amd. 2005 Code)
9-8-20: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Subdivision And Zoning Regulations: Mobile home
subdivisions shall comply with the subdivision ordinance and the zoning
ordinance of the city, except as otherwise provided.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten (10)
acres.
   C.   Residence Restrictions: No residences except mobile homes shall be
permitted in a mobile home subdivision.
   D.   Lot And Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home subdivision shall be
forty feet (40') measured at the front building line and minimum lot areas
shall be four thousand (4,000) square feet; provided, that at least a five foot
(5') side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any mobile home additions
thereto; and further provided, that in areas not serviced by a public sewer the
minimum additional lot areas shall be determined by the health officer on the
basis of safe and sanitary sewer service.
      2.   The effective lot width of a mobile home shall be determined for
interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal
side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurement shall be made at
right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the mid point of the real line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   E.   Side Lot Lines: Side line of lots in mobile subdivisions need not be at
right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   F.   Abutting Public Street: Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile
home subdivision lots must abut a public street for at least twenty five feet
(25').
   G.   Greenbelt Planting Strip: All mobile home subdivisions shall have a
greenbelt planting strip, not less than twenty feet (20') in width, along all
subdivision boundaries. Such greenbelt shall be composed of one row of
deciduous and/or evergreen stands, spaced not more than forty feet (40') apart,
and not less than three (3) rows of shrubs, spaced not more than forty feet
(40') apart, and not less than three (3) rows of shrubs spaced not more than
eight feet (8') apart and which grow to a height of five feet (5') or more
after one full growing season and which shrubs will eventually grow to a height
of not less than twelve feet (12'). (1986 Code § 4-61)
9-8-21: PARK SUPERVISION:
The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall
be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject. (1986 Code § 4-62)
9-8-22: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 9
AWNINGS AND SIGNS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Supports; Height; Width
9-9-2: Unsafe Awnings Or Signs
9-9-3: Penalty
9-9-1: SUPPORTS; HEIGHT; WIDTH:
All awnings within the fire limits of the city shall have metal supports from
above with frames made of either iron, aluminum, or wood with cloth, canvas,
corrugated iron or other metal covering. The lower part of any awning or sign
where it extends across or over the sidewalk, shall be at least nine feet (9')
above the same; provided, that no such awning shall exceed eight feet (8') in
width. (1986 Code § 4-64)
9-9-2: UNSAFE AWNINGS OR SIGNS:
If any awning or sign, within the fire limits of the city, shall, by reason of
its construction or use or from decay or any other cause, be reported to be
dangerous or unsafe so as to endanger, life, limb or property, it shall be the
duty of the building inspector to immediately inspect such awning or structure,
and if he deems the same dangerous and unsafe, he shall cause the same to be
made safe, removed, or destroyed in the same manner and according to the same
procedure provided by this code relating to unsafe structures. (1986 Code § 4-
65)
9-9-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
9-1-5 of this title. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 10
SWIMMING POOL ENCLOSURES
SECTION:
9-10-1: Enclosure Required
9-10-2: Construction Options, Requirements
9-10-3: Penalty
9-10-1: ENCLOSURE REQUIRED:
Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool, which
contains twenty four inches (24") (610 mm) or more of water in depth at any
point, shall erect and maintain thereon an adequate enclosure, or barrier,
either surrounding the property or pool area, sufficient to make such body of
water inaccessible to small children. Such enclosure, or barrier, including
gates therein, shall be not less than four feet (4') (1,219 mm) above the
underlying ground. All gates shall be self-latching with latches placed four
feet (4') (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground and otherwise made
inaccessible from the outside to small children. (1986 Code § 11-11)
9-10-2: CONSTRUCTION OPTIONS, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Manner Of Construction: An adequate enclosure or barrier shall be
accomplished in one of the following manners:
      1.   Wood:
         a.   Posts shall be at least four inches (4") in diameter or four
inches by four inches (4" x 4"), shall be of pressure treated wood and shall be
spaced not more than ten feet (10') apart. Posts shall be embedded at least
eighteen inches (18") into the ground.
         b.   Railings, where used, shall be at least two inches by four inches
(2" x 4") in nominal dimension. There shall be at least two (2) railings.
Railings shall provide no horizontal projections or recessions unless at four
feet (4'). Railings shall not be used in such a way as to form a ladder.
      2.   Wire:
         a.   Posts shall be galvanized pipe at least two inches (2") in
diameter and shall be spaced not more than ten feet (10') apart. Such posts
shall be embedded to a depth of twelve inches (12") in a concrete jacket at
least eighteen inches (18") deep and six inches (6") in diameter.
         b.   Chainlink shall be at least 11-gauge galvanized metal.
         c.   Supports shall be galvanized metal at least one and one-fourth
inches (11/4") thick and shall provide no footholds.
      3.   Wrought Iron:
         a.   Posts shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") wall steel tube and shall
be spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart on center.
         b.   Fence sections shall consist of at least one-half inch (1/2")
thick steel bars spaced not more than four inches (4") apart.
         c.   Horizontal rails shall not form a ladder.
      4.   Masonry walls of brick, concrete or stone shall be constructed so as
to provide no projections or recessions within four feet (4') of the ground's
surface. Construction shall not be such as to form a ladder.
   B.   Space Between Bottom Of Enclosure And Deck: There shall be not more
than four inches (4") of space between the bottom of the enclosure or barrier
and the ground's surface or the pool deck.
   C.   Alternate Materials And Methods: The city council may approve alternate
enclosure or barrier materials and methods where the city council finds such
materials and methods equivalent to those described above. (1986 Code § 11-11)
9-10-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues constitutes a
separate violation. (1986 Code § 11-12; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 11
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-11-1: Residential Code Adopted
9-11-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
The International Residential Code, 2015 edition, or most current edition
thereafter enacted, and as hereafter amended from time to time, be and is
hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the City of Vinita, State of
Oklahoma, a copy of which has been placed on file in the Office of the Codes
Enforcement Officer for the City of Vinita, Oklahoma, being marked and
designated as the Residential Code, 2015 edition. (Ord. 3661, 6-20-2017, eff.
6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 12
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-12-1: Existing Building Code Adopted
9-12-1: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The International Existing Building Code, 2015 edition, or most current edition
thereafter enacted, and as hereafter amended from time to time, be and is
hereby adopted as the Existing Building Code of the City of Vinita in the State
of Oklahoma, for the purpose of regulating and governing the condition and
maintenance of all existing buildings and structures, a copy of which has been
placed on file in the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer for the City of
Vinita, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International Existing
Building Code, 2015 edition. (Ord. 3654, 6-20-2017, eff. 6-20-2017)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization; Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation And Application
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; TITLE:
This title is enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature
of the state of Oklahoma in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 43-101 et seq., and
shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VINITA, and shall be
cited as such. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and future
inhabitants of the city; and to secure safety from fire, panic, and other
dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate provision of
adequate facilities for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and
other public requirements; and promote a more homogeneous relationship of land
use within the incorporated limits of the city; to protect property values; and
to regulate the use of the land and to promote the orderly development of the
community in accordance with the comprehensive plan as adopted by the planning
commission and approved by the city council; and all other accepted purposes of
zoning. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
As concerns interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Where this title imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provision of law or by other
rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this title shall control.
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise stipulated or required, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of this title, and words used in
the present tense include the future; the singular shall include the plural,
and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall mean as well the word
"structure"; the word "used" shall include "arranged", "designed",
"constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased", or "intended to be
used", and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY OR AUXILIARY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure customarily
incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of a building or
to the principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE: Any material or structure of any character
whatsoever, placed for outdoor advertising purposes. The term "placed" shall
include making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of the advertising
structure shall be determined as the area of the largest cross section of the
structure. Neither directional, warning or other signs posted by public
officials in the course of their public duties shall be construed as
advertising signs for the purpose of this title.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided further, that
the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage to swine or
other animals, stockyards or commercial feed lots for cattle.
ALLEY: A minor right of way, dedicated to public use, not more than thirty feet
(30') wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition where no repair work is done.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental replacement of parts and motor service to
passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: Any area used for retail sale of
gasoline or oil fuels, or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair, or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
AUTOMOBILE WASH OR AUTOMATIC CAR WASH: A building or structure or chain
conveyors, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
BASEMENT: A story wholly or partly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
BLOCK: In describing the boundaries of a district, the word "block" refers to
the legal description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the
property abutting on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting
streets or a street and a railroad right of way or watercourse.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment for the city of Vinita, Oklahoma,
also referred to as the board.
BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE: Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relation, excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
or property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or
more unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a
separate building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as herein
provided.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: The subordinate building, the use of which is customarily
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
BUILDING LINE: A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or buildings in which the principal use of the
building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
BULK LIMITATIONS (FLOOR AREA RATIO): The number of square feet of "floor area"
as defined herein which is permitted for each square foot of lot area.
BULLETIN BOARD: Any board or sign erected for announcement purposes.
CARPORT: A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides.
CELLAR: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling; partly
underground, but having one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear
height below the adjoining finished grade.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution which receives three (3) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years, for care apart from their
natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, and received for regular
periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this definition shall not
include public and private schools organized, operated or approved under the
laws of this state; custody of children fixed by a court; children related by
blood or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person; or to
churches or other religious or public institutions caring for children within
their institutional buildings while their parents or legal guardians are
attending services or meetings or classes and other church activities.
CITY: The incorporated city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city of Vinita,
Oklahoma.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: Vinita planning commission, as established by the
statutes hereinbefore cited, for the city of Vinita, county of Craig, state of
Oklahoma, also referred to as commission.
CLINIC: A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not provided with board and room or kept overnight on the premises.
CLUB: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official city plan of the city of Vinita, Oklahoma; and
also refers to the specific document the "comprehensive development plan" of
the city of Vinita, Oklahoma.
CONVALESCENT HOME, NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill, or incurable persons, in which two (2) or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation but not including hospitals, clinics, or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
COUNCIL: The city council of Vinita, Oklahoma.
COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including the
area covered by all the overhanging roofs.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as a
residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
cabin, trailer or trailer coach, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building designed for or used by three (3) or more
families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively by two (2)
families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, designed for or used by one family.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utility or municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems; including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
EXCEPTION: A variance from the requirements of this title properly authorized
by the board of adjustment.
FAMILY: A person living alone or two (2) or more persons living together,
related by blood or marriage, as a single housekeeping unit using a single
facility for culinary purposes in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity
house, or sorority house.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings measured from exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center walls or from the centerlines of walls separating two (2)
buildings.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot measured at right angles to the depth on the front
or street side of the lot.
GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
GARAGE, PARKING: Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
(4) or more automobiles in which any servicing that may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: The structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any building or structure on any parcel of
land measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost
point of the structure or building.
HEIGHT LIMIT: The limit of height as imposed in this title for any structure or
building or permitted use within the zoning district.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
customary for purely domestic or household purposes.
HOSPITAL: A building or portion thereof used for the accommodation of sick,
injured or infirm persons.
HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six (6)
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation but not including trailer court or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage, or building where persons are housed under restraint.
INDUSTRY: Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance, or any commodity for commercial use.
INSTITUTIONAL USES: Those uses organized, established, used or intended to be
used for the promotion of public, religious, educational, charitable, cultural,
social, or philanthropic activities and normally operated on a nonprofit basis.
JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including all
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises on which three (3) or more dogs over four (4)
months of age are kept.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with the building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or
utilized for a principal use and used as accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this title, and having access on a public street. A
lot may consist of portions of two (2) or more lots of record; provided, that
the lot meets the minimum area and width regulations of each respective
district.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two (2)
sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: Herein designated as a separate and distinct parcel on a legally
recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed with the county
clerk or register of deeds of Craig County, Oklahoma.
LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot situated so that the front is either wider or narrower
than the rear of the lot.
MAXIMUM COVERAGE: The maximum amount of land that may be covered by buildings
on any lot.
MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
MINISTORAGE UNITS: A building containing small partitioned storage spaces,
which are separately and individually rented or leased, for the storage of
personal goods or merchandise, but excluding commercial warehousing.
MOBILE HOME COURT: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes for nontransient use.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A parcel of land for the exclusive use of the occupants of a
single mobile home.
MOBILE HOME STAND: The part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home.
NONCONFORMING USE: A parcel lawfully occupied by a use that does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
OFF STREET PARKING: The provision of space reserved exclusively for the parking
of motor vehicles entirely off the public street and lying wholly within the
property boundaries of the parcel of land affected.
OPEN SPACE: Area included in any side, rear, or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
PARCEL: A "lot" as defined in this section.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the same uses as a private garage.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or other public way,
used for the parking of automobiles and available to the public whether for
fee, free or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area of not less than two hundred (200)
square feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways
or access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
PERMITTED USES: The use of a structure or of a tract of land allowed by the use
regulations of this title.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House And Rooming House.
SIGN: Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on, or
represented on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or
included any lettering, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device, or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction, advertisement, or other attention directing device. A
"sign" shall not include the similar structure or device located within a
building, except for illuminated signs within show windows. The word "sign"
includes any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennants, or insignia of
any nation or association of nations, or any state, city or other political,
charitable, educational, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like
campaign, drive, movement, or event.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises for
sale, rent, or lease.
STORY: That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story or the ground story of any building, the floor
of which is not more than twelve inches (12") below the average contact ground
level at the exterior walls of the building; except that any basement or cellar
used for residence purposes shall be deemed the first story; provided, that a
basement or cellar used purely for recreational purposes shall not be deemed
the first story.
STORY, MEZZANINE: A story which covers one-third (1/3) or less of the story
directly underneath it.
STREET: A public right of way more than twenty feet (20') in width which
provides a public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for
vehicular circulation. The term "street" shall include avenue, drive, circle,
road, parkway, boulevard, lane, place, highway, thoroughfare, and any other
similar term.
STREET, COLLECTOR: Those residential streets designed to carry intracity
traffic connecting neighborhood areas to a major street whose purpose is to
collect traffic from other minor streets and to serve as the most direct route
to a major street or to a community facility as described and shown on the
trafficways plan.
STREET, INTERSECTING: Any street which adjoins another street at an angle
whether or not it crosses the other.
STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the trafficways plan
and designed to carry intracity traffic and to relate the various neighborhoods
within the city.
STREET, MINOR: Any street not designated as a major or collector street and
intended to serve or provide access exclusively to the properties abutting
thereon.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building such
as walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground (including portable storage buildings, swimming pools, and satellite
dishes, but not including sidewalks, driveways and similar improvement areas).
THOROUGHFARE, EXPRESSWAY: A primary thoroughfare with divided roadways, partial
or full control of access in general with grade separations at intersections. A
"freeway" shall mean an expressway with full control of access and meeting the
standards of the bureau of public roads, U.S. department of commerce.
THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the comprehensive general plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles, and standards and also includes
use of the terms "major street plan" and "trafficways plan".
THOROUGHFARE, PRIMARY OR SECONDARY: An officially designated federal or state
numbered highway or county or other road or street designated as a primary
thoroughfare on the official thoroughfare or major street plan for the city of
Vinita, Oklahoma; or county or other road or street designated as a secondary
thoroughfare on said plan, respectively.
TOURIST COURT: An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to
be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
TRAFFIC SIGNALING DEVICE: A sign, device of mechanical contrivance, used for
the control of motor vehicular and pedestrian movement.
TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME: A portable or mobile living unit used or designed for
human occupancy on a permanent basis.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which either land, building or structure is or may
be occupied or maintained.
UTILITY SERVICE INSTALLATION: Any structure or installation by a utility
company deemed to be necessary for the safe or efficient operation of that
utility.
VARIANCE: Any modification of the terms of this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot line
to side lot line abutting on a street beyond which a building may not protrude.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line and at the end opposite the front lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from front building line to the rear building line
abutting the side lot line beyond which no building may protrude.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person nominated by the mayor and approved by a
majority vote of the city council to fill the position of zoning enforcement
officer and whose duties shall include the uniform application and enforcement
of the zoning ordinance of the city of Vinita.
ZONING MAP: The adopted zoning map or maps of the city of Vinita together with
all amendments. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 3415, 11-18-2008; Ord.
3619, 4-5-2016)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Board Established; Appointment
10-2-2: Procedure; Meetings
10-2-3: Appeals
10-2-4: Public Hearing Required
10-2-5: Variances And Special Exceptions; Filing Fee
10-2-6: Appeal To District Court
10-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Board Created; Terms; Removal: There is hereby created a zoning board
of adjustment consisting of five (5) members, each to be appointed for a term
of three (3) years and removable for cause by the appointing authority upon
written charges and after public hearing.
   B.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant.
   C.   Continuation Of Existing Board: It is specifically provided, however,
that on the effective date of this title such board of adjustment as was
legally in existence immediately prior to such date shall be constituted as the
board of adjustment hereby created, and the terms of the then members of said
board shall expire after a period of three (3) years, or until their successors
are duly appointed and qualified.
   D.   Appointment And Confirmation: Said board of adjustment shall be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-2-2: PROCEDURE; MEETINGS:
   A.   Chairman: The zoning board of adjustment shall elect one of its members
as chairman, who shall serve for the duration of his term.
   B.   Rules: The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
this title.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. All meetings of
the board shall be open to the public.
   D.   Functions; Procedure: The chairman, or in his absence, the acting
chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by
subpoena. The board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and
shall be a public record. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-2-3: APPEALS:
   The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide appeals if
it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of any
zoning ordinance. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days of the
alleged error by filing with the city clerk and the board of adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The city clerk shall forthwith
transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
(Ord., 11-1-1983; amd Ord. 3843, 6-18-2024)
10-2-4: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
The zoning board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal or other matter referred to it, give ten (10) days' public notice
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation, as well as by mailing written
notice by the clerk of the board of adjustment to all owners of property within
a three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the subject
property at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. The owner or agent shall provide a list of the owners
within the three hundred foot (300') radius certified to be accurate by a
bonded abstracter, attorney, or such other entity as may be acceptable to the
clerk. The appeal, variance or exception shall be deemed not filed until said
list is provided. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person, or by
agent, or by attorney. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-2-5: VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS; FILING FEE:
   A.   Powers Enumerated: The board of adjustment shall have the following
powers:
      1.   Authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms, standards and
criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district as
authorized by the zoning ordinance so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be
observed and substantial justice done. A variance from the terms, standards and
criteria that pertain to an allowed use catefory within a zoning district as
authorized by the zoning ordinance may be granted, in whole, in part, or upon
reasonable conditions only upon a finding by the board of adjustment that:
         a.   The application of the ordinance to the particular piece pf
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
         b.   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
         c.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance or the
comprehensive plan; and
         d.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
       Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, hear and decide oil and/or
gas applications or appeals.
      3.   Special Exceptions Regarding Uses; Mobile Homes: To hear and decide
special exceptions to the zoning code to allow a use, or a specifically
designated element associated with a use, which is not permitted by right in a
particular district because of potential adverse effect, but if controlled in
the particular instance as to its relationship to the neighborhood and to the
general welfare, may be permitted by the board of adjustment. Such special
exceptions may be granted in such individual cases for the duration of the use
of a particular approved owner occupied single-family mobile home, regardless
of change of ownership, in the R-1 and A-1 districts so long as the mobile home
continues to be occupied by its owner on a lot and in a manner which otherwise
complies with the zoning code of the city, subject to the following procedures
and provisions:
         a.   The applicant must make a written application for the special
exception containing a legal description of the real property for which the
special exception is sought (the property) and photographs of each side of the
exterior of the particular mobile home for which the special exception is
sought;
         b.   Notice must be mailed to the last address as reflected by the
records of the Craig County treasurer, to all owners of real property whose
boundary lies within three hundred feet (300') of the real property for which
the special exception is sought at least ten (10) days in advance of the
hearing on the said special exception; and
         c.   Publication of said application as required by section
10-2-4 of this chapter; and
         d.   The board of adjustment shall conduct a hearing on said special
exception to allow the applicant an opportunity to present his or her request
and to inquire as to any objections presented by the owners of the property
within three hundred feet (300') of the real property for which the special
exception is sought. In determining whether to grant the special exception, the
board of adjustment may consider the comprehensive zoning plan of the city, the
condition of the proposed mobile home, the potential effect to the
neighborhood, the positions of the property owners within three hundred feet
(300') and all other factors the board deems relevant. If the special exception
as to such particular mobile home is granted, the mobile home must meet the
minimum standards of the federal department of housing and urban development,
as amended from time to time.
         e.   If the special exception is granted, the approved mobile home
must be located upon the property within one hundred eighty (180) days from the
date it is granted, in failure of which the special exception shall terminate
and be of no effect without further notice.
         f.   In order to protect the public welfare and health of the
residents of the city and to ensure the aesthetic values of the property and
improvements thereon in the various areas of the city, the board of adjustment,
after inspection of the physical condition of the mobile home for which a
special exception has been granted, either in person or by photograph, and
finding same to be in a different condition than the approved mobile home or
deteriorated or in noticeable disrepair, may, in its discretion, refuse to
issue a building permit to locate or place such mobile home on the property.
(Ord. 3454, 12-15-2009)
   B.   Voting Of Members: In exercising the above powers, the board of
adjustment shall have the concurring vote of at least three (3) of its members
in order that it may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination, and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
   C.   Filing Fee: Upon the filing of a board of adjustment appeal, variance
or exception, the property owner or his agent shall pay a filing fee of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) to the clerk of the board of adjustment. All fees
collected by the board of adjustment shall be deposited with the city clerk and
credited to the general fund of the city. Provided, that in appeals involving
administrative review, the filing fee shall be waived by the clerk in the event
he determines, after review of a completed pauper's affidavit, in the form
attached to ordinance 2747 on file in the office of the city clerk, that the
applicant would not otherwise be able to obtain review of said administrative
decision. Provided further, that in appeals involving administrative review,
the filing fee shall be refunded in the event of a final determination rendered
in favor of the applicant. A "final determination" shall be defined as a
decision of the board of adjustment or the courts of the state of Oklahoma, as
the case may be, from which no further appeal has been taken within the time
allowed by statute.
(Ord. 2747, 9-20-1988; amd. 3843, 6-18-2024)
10-2-6: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Filing Notice Of Appeal:
      1.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of
the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or
bureau of the city to the district court by filing a notice of appeal with the
city clerk and with the clerk of the board of adjustment within sixty (60) days
from the filing of the decision of the board, which notice shall specify the
grounds of such appeal.
      2.   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the said
board shall transmit forthwith to the court clerk of the county the original or
certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the board.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings:
      1.   An appeal to the district court from the board of adjustment stays
all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the chairman
of the board of adjustment, from which the appeal is taken, certified to the
court clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay in his opinion would cause
imminent peril to life or property.
      2.   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the district court upon application
or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of this title, and upon notice to the chairman of the
board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken, and, upon due cause being
shown.
   C.   Court Decision: The court may reverse, or affirm, wholly or partly, or
modify the decision brought up for review. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: Boundaries Of Districts
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title and the promotion of public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the city of Vinita:
Residential districts
 A-1 General agricultural district
 R-1 Single-family residential district
 R-2 General residential district
Commercial districts
 C-1 Convenience commercial district
 C-2 Highway commercial and commercial recreation district
 C-3 General commercial district
Industrial districts
 I-1 Light industrial district
 I-2 Heavy industrial district
 
   (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
As districts are designated, they shall be bounded and defined as shown on a
map entitled "Zoning Map Of The City Of Vinita, County Of Craig, State Of
Oklahoma". The zoning map, and all of the explanatory material thereon, is
hereby made a part of this title. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-3-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the "Zoning Map Of The City Of Vinita, County Of Craig,
State Of Oklahoma", the planning commission, upon written application or upon
its own motion, shall recommend the location of such boundaries to the board of
adjustment, and the board of adjustment shall make the final determination.
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Application Of Regulations
10-4-2: Existing Buildings And Land Use
10-4-3: Height And Density
10-4-4: Principal And Accessory Buildings
10-4-5: Street Access
10-4-6: Off Street Parking
10-4-7: Storage And Parking Of Trailers, Commercial Vehicles
10-4-8: Annexations
10-4-9: Existing Lots Of Record
10-4-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   More Restrictive Regulations, Uses Apply: Whenever the specific
district regulations pertaining to one district permit the uses of a more
restricted district, such uses shall be subject to the conditions set forth in
the regulations of the more restricted district, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Dwellings Used For Residential Purposes: It is intended that these
regulations be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be located on
the same lot with or within a structure used or intended to be used primarily
for nonresidential purposes. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-4-2: EXISTING BUILDINGS AND LAND USE:
Except as herewith provided, no building or parcel of land shall be used or
occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-4-3: HEIGHT AND DENSITY:
   A.   Height: No building shall hereafter be erected or altered which will
exceed the height limit nor shall any building or land be used or occupied
hereafter in excess of the density regulations for that district.
   B.   Number Of Families: No building shall hereafter be erected or altered
to accommodate a greater number of families than specified for that district.
   C.   Lot Size; Bulk Limitation: No building shall be erected or altered to
exceed the specifications of required lot size, maximum coverage, yard
requirements, height limitations, or bulk limitation for that district, as
defined. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-4-4: PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on one
lot, except as provided herein; and there shall be no more than one principal
building and the customary accessory buildings on one lot; provided further,
that accessory buildings may not be erected or placed in the front yard areas
as required in the separate districts; provided further, that accessory
buildings or structures may be erected or placed in the side or rear yard areas
subject to a five foot (5') setback. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-4-5: STREET ACCESS:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-4-6: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose And Application: It is the intent of these requirements that
adequate parking and loading facilities be provided off the street easement for
each use of land within the city. Requirements are intended to be based on the
demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all uses in all
districts.
   B.   Required Open Space: Off street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced
or encroached upon in any manner.
   C.   Location: The off street parking lot shall be located within two
hundred feet (200'), exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use
and shall have direct access to a street or alley.
   D.   Joint Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
   E.   Size Of Off Street Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   F.   Schedule Of Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in accordance with the
following schedule:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Boarding or rooming house or hotel      1 parking space for each 2 guests
                                        provided overnight accommodations
                                        1 parking space for each 150 square
Commercial establishments not otherwise feet of floor space used for retail
classified                              trade in the building and including all
                                        areas used by the public
Community center, theater, auditorium,  1 parking space for each 4 seats, based
church sanctuary                        on maximum seating capacity
                                        1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
Convalescent or nursing homes           space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees including nurses
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  1 parking space for each 50 square feet
museum, place of amusement or           of floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building.
                                        The number of spaces provided shall not
Dwelling, multiple-family               be less than 11/2 times the number of
                                        units in the dwelling
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       1 parking space for each separate
                                        dwelling unit within the structure
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space
Hospital                                for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
                                        1 space for each 3 employees including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles
                                        1 off street parking space for each
                                        1,000 square feet of gross floor area
                                        or 1 off street parking space for each
Industrial establishments               3 employees, whichever is greater, and
                                        1 loading or unloading berth for each
                                        25,000 square feet or fraction thereof
                                        of gross floor area
Medical or dental clinics or offices    6 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor area in the
Office building                         building, exclusive of the area used
                                        for storage, utilities and building
                                        service
 
   G.   Paved Surface Required: All parking spaces in commercial areas shall be
paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust
will result from the continued use.
   H.   Parking Lots In Residential Districts: Whenever off street parking lots
for more than six (6) vehicles are to be located within or adjacent to a
residential district, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district
shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall or dense evergreen
hedge having a height of not less than five feet (5'). Such fence, wall or
hedge shall be maintained in good condition.
      2.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback line
whenever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, a minimum five
foot (5') setback shall be required.
      3.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      4.   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      5.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only nonintermittent white lighting of a sign shall be permitted. (Ord., 11-1-
1983)
10-4-7: STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, camping and
hauling, and mobile homes shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by
a dwelling or on any lot in any residential district except in accordance with
the following provisions:
   A.   Commercial Vehicles: No more than one commercial vehicle, which does
not exceed one and one-half (11/2) tons' rated capacity, per family living on
the premises, shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle
used for hauling explosives, gasoline, or liquefied petroleum products be
permitted.
   B.   Camping Or Travel Trailers: No more than one camping or travel trailer
or hauling trailer, per family living on the premises, shall be permitted and
said trailer shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') in length, or eight feet
(8') in width; and further provided, that said trailer shall not be parked or
stored for more than forty eight (48) hours unless it is located behind the
front yard building line. A camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied
either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area
within the incorporated limits except in a trailer court authorized under the
ordinances of the city. Provided, however, that the prohibitions and
restrictions contained in this section shall be temporarily suspended in those
instances where a camper and/or travel trailer is located and utilized as a
temporary residence on property located in the city while a properly authorized
demolition and/or construction project is taking place thereon, pursuant to a
properly issued demolition and/or construction permit from the city, containing
a detailed description of each step in the demolition and/or construction
process, along with a definite timeline for the completion of each step in the
process, and provided further that this temporary suspension shall continue
only so long as the camper or travel trailer remains occupied as the principal
residence of the property owner/permit holder who continues to receive water
and sewer service at the trailer/camper from the city; but that in no event
shall such temporary suspension of the prohibitions and restrictions, otherwise
herein contained extend more than one (1) year from the date of issuance of the
applicable demolition and/or construction permit.
   C.   Mobile Homes: A mobile home shall be parked, occupied or stored only in
a trailer court which is in conformity with the ordinances of the city. (Ord.,
11-1-1983; amd. Ord. 3762, 5-18-2021)
10-4-8: ANNEXATIONS:
All territory annexed to the corporate limits of the city subsequent to the
effective date of this title is within the jurisdiction of this title and will,
upon annexation, be zoned as R-1 single-family residential district, unless
otherwise classified by the city council. Within six (6) months after the
effective date of such annexation, the city council shall, in accordance with
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 43-101 et seq., and this title, rezone said
annexed territory in keeping with the comprehensive plan. (Ord., 11-1-1983;
amd. 2005 Code)
10-4-9: EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district where single-family residences are permitted, a single-family
detached dwelling may be erected on any lot which is of official record on the
effective date of this title, subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Minimum Lot Width: There must be provided a minimum lot width of fifty
feet (50').
   B.   Yards:
      1.   There must be provided a minimum of ten feet (10') in side yards
with five feet (5') on any one side.
      2.   The front and rear yards must comply with the requirements set forth
for the zoning district within which the lot of record is located. (Ord., 11-1-
1983)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Intent
10-5-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-5-3: Nonconforming Structures
10-5-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
10-5-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
10-5-1: INTENT:
   A.   Within the districts established by this title, or amendment that may
later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and structures
which were lawful before this title was adopted or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this title or future
amendment.
   B.   It is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for
adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   C.   A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after adoption of this title. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-5-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this title, a single-family dwelling
and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title. Such lot must be in
separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same
ownership. Variance of area, width, and yard requirements shall be obtained
only through action of the board of adjustment. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-5-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this title that could not be built under the terms of this title by reason
of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics
of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Alterations: No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Destruction: Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this title.
   C.   Moving Structure: Should such structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, that would
not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, the lawful use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Moving Or Altering Structure: No existing structure devoted to a use
not permitted by this title in the district in which it is located shall be
moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a
use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Enlarging Or Extending: No existing structure devoted to a use not
permitted by this title in the district in which it is located shall be
extended or enlarged, except in changing the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located, except any nonconforming use
may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly
arranged or designed for such use at the time of the adoption of this title,
but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   Nonconforming Use Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or
structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is
superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for
the district in which such structure is located, and the nonconforming use may
not thereafter be resumed.
   D.   Discontinuance Or Abandonment: When a nonconforming use of a structure,
or structure and premises in combination is discontinued or abandoned for six
(6) months, the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   E.   Removal To Eliminate Nonconforming Status: Where nonconforming use
status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the
land. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-5-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, lawful
uses of land exist that are no longer permissible under the terms of this title
as enacted or amended, such uses may be continued, so long as they remain
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than thirty (30) days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which
such land is located; provided however, that upon application for and receipt
of a permit from the city clerk, the period of thirty (30) days hereinbefore
referred to may be extended to six (6) months where necessary for the
improvement or repair of the property, upon the approval of said permit by the
zoning administrator. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
CHAPTER 6
A-1 GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: General Description
10-6-2: Uses Permitted
10-6-3: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-6-4: Signs And Billboards
10-6-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The A-1 agricultural district is established for several purposes: a) to
provide for the continued use of land for predominantly agricultural purposes;
b) to preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed at urban
standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety, etc.; and c)
to restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until such time
as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to flooding. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
10-6-2: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: No buildings or use shall hereafter be established or
enlarged within the A-1 agricultural district, except a building or use devoted
to one of the following purposes:
"Agricultural", as defined in this title.
Churches and temples.
Elementary schools and high schools.
Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt courses, or
miniature golf courses.
Municipal or community recreation centers.
Parks and forest preserves, operated not for profit.
Police or fire stations.
Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not for
profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries, or
museums.
Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, or
sanitariums.
Public or private hospitals or sanitariums.
Public or private schools and colleges.
Public utility and service uses, including electric substations, gas regulator
stations, electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water transmission metering
and distribution equipment and structures, microwave relay towers, water
reservoirs or pumping stations, and other similar facilities.
Single-family dwellings 1 .
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only, and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of the
construction.
   B.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Accessory buildings or uses incidental to
the foregoing principal uses listed in subsection A of this section. (Ord., 11-
1-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  10-2-5A3 of this title for permitted mobile homes.
10-6-3: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Minimum Minimum  Maximum          Minimum Minimum Minimum
Lot     Lot      Percent  Maximum Front   Side    Rear
Area    Frontage Coverage Height  Yard    Yard    Yard
                                  Setback Setback Setback
Minimum Minimum                  Maximum          Minimum Minimum Minimum
Lot     Lot                      Percent  Maximum Front   Side    Rear
Area    Frontage                 Coverage Height  Yard    Yard    Yard
                                                  Setback Setback Setback
5 acres 150' Including accessory 30%      35'     50'     25'     50'
        buildings
 
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-6-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the A-1 general agriculture district is
the same as that in section
10-7A-7 of this title for the R-1 single-family residential district. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: General Description
10-7A-2: Uses Permitted
10-7A-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Additional Requirements
10-7A-4: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-7A-5: Off Street Parking
10-7A-6: Sewer Service
10-7A-7: Signs And Billboards
10-7A-8: Carport
10-7A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The R-1 single-family residential district is established as a district in
which the use of the land is for single-family dwellings except as noted. It is
the purpose and intent of this district to promote the development of and the
continued use of the land for single-family dwellings and to prohibit
commercial and industrial uses or any other use which would substantially
interfere with the development or continuation of single-family dwellings in
this district. The intent is to further discourage any use in this district
which would generate traffic or create congestion on neighborhood streets other
than the normal traffic which serves the residents in the area. This district
further encourages only those uses which, because of character or size, would
not create additional requirements and costs for public services which are in
excess of such requirements and costs if the district were not developed solely
for single-family dwellings. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7A-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in an R-1 single-family residential district,
and are subject to all the general provisions and regulations of this title:
Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
Elementary schools, public and private, where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of coursework to the public schools.
Public parks or playgrounds.
Single-family detached dwellings which, for purposes of this article, shall not
be deemed to include mobile homes 1 . (Ord., 11-1-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  10-2-5A3 of this title for permitted mobile homes.
10-7A-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted, provided they meet
the requirements noted for each use, in addition to applicable area
regulations:
Childcare center or day nursery; provided, that such center or nursery is
operated by a licensed provider, that the residence is the primary residence of
the operator, that it does not employ nonresidents of the single-family
dwelling where operations are conducted, and that the operation otherwise meets
and complies with all state guidelines for operation of a childcare center or
day nursery.
Churches; provided, that a minimum lot size of one acre and major street
frontage is provided, as shown on the trafficways plan.
Golf course, private or public, or country club; provided, that the chief
activity is for recreational purposes and any commercial activity is accessory
or incidental thereto.
Home occupation; provided, that it is in keeping with the meaning of "home
occupation" as defined in section
10-1-4 of this title.
Junior high or senior high schools; provided, that they have major street
frontage as shown on the trafficways plan.
Library; provided, that such library has major street frontage as shown on the
trafficways plan.
Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this district.
Plant nursery; provided, that no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith and no retailing of any material is carried on upon the
premises.
Temporary bulletin board or sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of the main
building and will be removed when the main structure is completed.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main
building may include one private garage. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. Ord. 2957, 6-
16-1992)
10-7A-4: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum Minimum  Maximum    Maximum Front   Side     Rear
Lot     Lot      Percent    Height  Yard    Yard     Yard
Area    Frontage Coverage           Setback Setback  Setback
                                                
9,000   70 feet  30 percent 35 feet 25 feet 5 feet   20 feet
square          interior                 interior  
feet                                    lots      
                                                
                 35 percent                 10 feet
                 corner                     street
                                       side of   
                                           corner
                                           lots
 
   A.   Front Yard: In no case shall a new structure protrude further in the
front yard than the overhanging roof of an existing adjacent structure if the
overhanging roof of the new structure is positioned less than thirty feet (30')
from the front property line.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   For buildings of more than one story, the minimum width of the side
yard on interior lot lines shall be not less than ten feet (10').
      2.   For a principal building other than a one-family dwelling, the
minimum width of a side yard shall be not less than one-half (1/2) the height
of the building, but in no case less than fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Rear Yard: Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the
rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no accessory building
shall be located closer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line.
   D.   Lot Size Requirements: The frontage of any wedge shaped lot which meets
the requirements of minimum lot size may be a minimum of forty feet (40');
however, the front building line on the lot shall be a minimum of seventy (70)
linear feet measured at an equal distance parallel to and from the front lot
line. (Ord. 3410, 10-7-2008)
10-7A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Except as provided for elsewhere in this title, all permitted uses in the R-
1 residence district shall comply with the following minimum requirements for
off street parking:
Type Of Use  Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
                                        1 off street parking space for each
Schools, elementary schools, junior     employee, plus 1 for each classroom,
and senior high schools, including     plus 1 for each 50 square feet of
public, private and parochial schools   assembly area with stationary or
                                        movable seats
Single-family dwellings                1 off street parking space for each
                                        dwelling unit
Utilities service installations        1 off street parking space for each 400
                                        square feet of floor space
                                        1 off street parking space for each 5
                                        seats provided for patron use, or 1
                                        space for each 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area used or intended to be used
Other uses permitted                   for service to the public, as
                                        customers, patrons, or clients,
                                        whichever requires the greatest number
                                        of parking spaces; the open space
                                        required by front yard requirements
                                        shall not be used for parking
 
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7A-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-1 single-family district shall be constructed which is
not provided with an effective connection to a public sewer system unless or
until the county public health officer certifies that a septic tank or any
substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a
basis for making his decision, the county public health officer may require
such percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests shall be made at
the expense of the homeowner. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-7A-7: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar matter shall
be permitted in the R-1 single-family residential district, except as follows:
   A.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6)
months to advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale.
   B.   Church Bulletin Board: One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50)
square feet may be erected by each church.
   C.   Public Notices: Official public notices may be erected on affected
property.
   D.   Nameplate: One unilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square
feet in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7A-8: CARPORT:
   A.   Upon obtaining a building permit approved by the city, a carport may be
installed or constructed on property owned by the applicant without regard to
the setback requirements set forth in this chapter, provided that no portion of
said carport shall encroach upon any utility, street, alley or drainage
easement or right of way.
   B.   Any portion of a carport which sits on or in front of the setback line
shall not be enclosed at the time of construction or at any later date.
   C.   A carport shall not be used for storage of any materials (other than a
frequently used motor vehicle). (Ord. 3415, 11-18-2008)
ARTICLE B. R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: General Description
10-7B-2: Uses Permitted
10-7B-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Additional Requirements
10-7B-4: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-7B-5: Off Street Parking
10-7B-6: Sewer Service
10-7B-7: Signs And Billboards
10-7B-8: Mobile Home Park Or Court
10-7B-9: Carport
10-7B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This residential district is intended to provide for both low and moderate
population density. It is established as a district in which the principal uses
of the land are for multi-family dwellings and similar higher density
residential development. The intent is to encourage the development and the
continued use of land for multi-family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and
industrial uses or any other use which would substantially interfere with the
development or continuation of multi-family dwellings in this district. It is
further intended to discourage any use which would generate traffic or create
congestion on the neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which
serves the multi-family dwelling or similar residential uses in this district
and discourage any use which, because of its characteristics or size, would
create additional requirements and costs for public services which are in
excess of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for
multi-family or other similar residential uses. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7B-2: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted in any R-2 general
residential district, and are subject to all the general provisions and
regulations of this title:
Any use permitted in section
10-7A-2 of this chapter, R-1 single-family district.
Duplexes.
Multi-family dwellings.
Rooming or boarding houses.
   B.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to the above uses are permitted when located on the same lot. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
10-7B-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted, provided they meet
the requirements noted for each use in addition to applicable area regulations:
Childcare centers or day nurseries; provided, that such centers or nurseries
are located on a lot not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area
and have their principal access on a major street as shown on the trafficways
plan.
Convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes and hospitals, public or private;
provided, that they have frontage on a major street as shown on the trafficways
plan.
Lodges and other service institutions; provided, that they are located on a lot
of not less than one acre and have frontage on a major street as shown on the
trafficways plan.
Mobile home courts, in compliance with section
10-7B-8 of this article.
   B.   Uses In R-1 District: Any uses permitted subject to additional
requirements in section
10-7A-3 of this chapter, R-1 single- family residence district, are permitted
in this district. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7B-4: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum Minimum  Maximum    Maximum Front   Side    Rear
Lot     Lot      Percent    Height  Yard    Yard    Yard
Area    Frontage Coverage           Setback Setback Setback
                                               
9,000   70 feet  50 percent Single- 25 feet 5 feet  20 feet
square                    family                 
feet                      35 feet                
 
(Ord. 3419, 12-16-2008)
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
      2.   For all uses other than single-family and duplex, the front yard
setback shall be twenty five feet (25') with an additional one foot (1') of
setback for each one foot (1') of height in excess of twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than ten
feet (10').
      2.   For all uses other than single-family and duplex, the side yard
setback shall be five feet (5') with an additional one foot (1') of setback for
each one foot (1') of height in excess of five feet (5'). (Ord. 3419, 12-16-
2008)
   C.   Rear Yard:
      1.   Unattached buildings of accessory uses may be located in the rear
yard of a main building; provided, however, that no accessory building shall be
located closer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
      2.   For all uses other than single-family and duplex, the rear yard
setback shall be twenty feet (20') with an additional one foot (1') of setback
for each one foot (1') of height in excess of twenty feet (20').
   D.   Lot Size Requirements: There shall be a lot area of not less than nine
thousand (9,000) square feet for a two-family dwelling, and an additional area
of not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet for each unit, more than two
(2). If the lot is a wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size, it may have less than the minimum requirements for frontage as long
as the front building line of the lot is a minimum of seventy (70) linear feet.
(Ord. 3419, 12-16-2008)
10-7B-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-2 general residential district, the off street parking requirements
are the same as those in section
10-4-6 of this title. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-7B-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-2 general residential district shall be constructed
which is not provided with an effective connection to a public sewer system
unless and until the public county health officer certifies that a septic tank
or any substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed on the lot.
As a basis for making his decision, the health officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests shall be made at the
expense of the homeowner. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-7B-7: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the R-2 general residential district is
the same as that in section
10-7A-7 of this chapter for the R-1 single-family residential district. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
10-7B-8: MOBILE HOME PARK OR COURT 1 :
Upon compliance with the provisions as set forth herein, a mobile home trailer
park will be allowed within the R-2 general residential district.
   A.   Site Plan: The applicant, upon making application for a zoning
clearance permit, must submit a detailed site plan locating all mobile home
stands, screening or fencing, and plans and specifications for the proposed
park in a form suitable for making the determinations required herein. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
   B.   Requirements For Site:
      1. The proposed site shall be a minimum of two (2) acres in size and
shall contain no more than ten (10) mobile home stands per acre. (Ord., 11-1-
1983; amd. 2005 Code)
      2. The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of two hundred feet
(200') on a street designated as a major street or collector street in the
trafficways plan. All access or egress by automobiles will be on such streets.
      3. The proposed site shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') in
depth.
   C.   Occupancy: It shall be the intention of the proposed plan for the
mobile home park to accommodate primarily permanent occupants with no more than
ten percent (10%) of the mobile home stands devoted to purely transient
purposes. These purely transient stands shall be located in one area of the
park so they will in no way interfere with the permanent residents.
   D.   Yards: The proposed site shall have a front yard of not less than
twenty feet (20') from the corner line of any mobile home stand to the street
boundary of the park. The site shall have side and rear yards of ten feet (10')
from any solid fencing, screen planting or wall of six feet (6') in height.
   E.   Screening: The proposed site shall be screened or buffered on all sides
with a solid wall fence six feet (6') in height or a screen planting which will
attain at least six feet (6') in height.
   F.   Parking: The proposed site shall provide one off street parking space
for each mobile home stand, plus one additional off street parking space for
each four (4) mobile home stands.
   G.   Connection To Utilities: The proposed site shall provide a connection
for each mobile home stand to all public utilities considered necessary for the
health, safety and general welfare of the public. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 8 of this code.
10-7B-9: CARPORT:
   A.   Upon obtaining a building permit approved by the city, a carport may be
installed or constructed on property owned by the applicant without regard to
the setback requirements set forth in this chapter, provided that no portion of
said carport shall encroach upon any utility, street, alley or drainage
easement or right of way.
   B.   Any portion of a carport which sits on or in front of the setback line
shall not be enclosed at the time of construction or at any later date.
   C.   A carport shall not be used for storage of any materials (other than a
frequently used motor vehicle). (Ord. 3415, 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: General Description
10-8A-2: Uses Permitted
10-8A-3: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-8A-4: Bulk Limitations; Floor Area Ratio
10-8A-5: Off Street Parking
10-8A-6: Sewer Service
10-8A-7: Signs And Billboards
10-8A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This commercial district is intended for a unified grouping, in one or more
buildings, of retail shops and stores and personal services that provide for
the regular needs and are for the convenience of the people residing in the
adjacent residential neighborhoods. It is intended that the suburban
convenience center be developed as a unit with adequate off street parking
space for customers and employees, and with appropriate landscaping and
screening. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8A-2: USES PERMITTED:
All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
conditions and restrictions enumerated below:
   A.   Principal Uses: Any of the following uses shall be permitted:
Artist supplies and hobby shops.
Automobile service stations.
Bakery shops.
Barber and beauty shops.
Bookstores.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Dairy products stores.
Delicatessens.
Drugstores.
Florist shops.
Gift shops.
Grocery stores.
Hardware stores.
Jewelry stores.
Laundry and dry cleaning pickup stations.
Liquor stores.
Medical facilities.
Offices, general.
Pharmacies.
Public uses.
Restaurants.
Self-service laundries.
Shoe repair shops.
Tailor shops.
Taverns.
Toy stores.
Variety stores.
   B.   Other Uses: Any other commercial uses deemed by the board of adjustment
to be of a similar nature.
   C.   Shopping Centers: All advertising signs relating to a shopping center,
and the stores and shops therein shall be designed as an integral part of the
shopping center development and shall be harmonious with the other design
features of the center.
   D.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to the above uses shall be permitted. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8A-3: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum            Minimum  Maximum  Maximum Front   Side    Rear
Lot                Lot      Percent  Height  Yard    Yard    Yard
Area               Frontage Coverage         Setback Setback Setback
12,000 square feet 100'     50%      35'     50'     10'     20'
 
   A.   Minimum Area: The parcel of land on which a convenience commercial
center is located shall not be less then twelve thousand (12,000) square feet
or more than two (2) acres in area.
   B.   Yard Requirements: It is intended that the grouping of buildings and
parking areas be designed to protect, insofar as possible, adjacent residential
areas. In no case shall the design of the shopping center provide less than the
following standards:
      1.   All buildings shall be set back from all street right of way lines
not less than fifty feet (50').
      2.   On the side of a lot adjoining a residential district, there shall
be a side yard setback of one foot (1') for each one foot (1') of height.
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8A-4: BULK LIMITATIONS; FLOOR AREA RATIO:
In no instance shall the total floor space of the structures in this district
exceed the relationship of one to four (1 to 4), i.e, there must be provided
four (4) square feet of lot area to each one square foot of floor space in the
structure. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the C-1 convenience commercial district, three (3) square feet of off street
parking space, dedicated to parking and automobile maneuvering, must be
provided for each one square foot of total floor space. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8A-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in any commercial district shall be erected or commenced
which does not have a connection to the public sewer system, unless and until
the county health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute
disposal system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for
making his decision, the health officer may require such percolation tests as
he deems to be necessary. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the
landowner. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-8A-7: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs in the C-1 district shall be erected upon private property and shall
not encroach upon any public street or walk except as provided by the
applicable municipal codes; and, in addition, signs shall not overhang at a
height of less than nine feet (9') and shall not have a maximum projection
greater than seventy two inches (72").
   A.   Projection Sign: Any projection sign in the C-1 district shall not
exceed fifty (50) square feet in size, nor will it exceed the height of the
building.
   B.   Incandescent Lighting: No source of incandescent lighting used for
illuminating signs shall be directly visible from any street or highway or from
any residence, hotel or from any room used for sleeping purposes.
   C.   Red, Green Or Amber Illumination:
      1.   The use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with any
sign shall not be permitted within one hundred feet (100') of any intersection.
      2.   Any use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with any
sign must be so located that it in no way creates a confusion with any traffic
signal or may be interpreted by any motorist as a traffic signaling device.
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
ARTICLE B. C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: General Description
10-8B-2: Uses Permitted
10-8B-3: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-8B-4: Off Street Parking
10-8B-5: Signs And Billboards
10-8B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This commercial district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for establishments offering accommodations, supplies, or
services to motorists, and for certain specialized uses such as retail outlets,
extensive commercial amusements and service establishments which may serve the
entire community but do not and should not locate in the central business
district or the convenience district. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8B-2: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Uses In C-1 District: Any use permitted in the C-1 convenience
commercial district. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
   B.   Principal Uses: Other uses, including:
Advertising signs or structures.
Ambulance services, offices or garages.
Amusement enterprises.
Automobile sales and service (new and used); new and used machinery sales and
service; and public garages.
Automobile service stations.
Bakeries.
Boat sales.
Bowling alleys.
Bus terminals.
Clothing stores.
Dance halls.
Department stores.
Drive-in theaters or restaurants.
Electric transmission stations.
Feed and fuel stores.
Food stores.
Frozen food lockers.
Funeral parlors.
Furniture repair and upholstery.
Garden stores.
Golf courses, miniature or practice ranges.
Heating and plumbing sales and services.
Hospital for small animals.
Ice plants.
Interior decorating stores.
Kennels.
Key shops.
Laundries.
Ministorage units.
Motels.
Music, radio, and television shops and repair shops.
Nightclubs.
Novelty shops.
Pawnshops.
Pet shops.
Printing plants.
Public uses.
Recreation centers, private.
Research laboratories.
Roller skating rinks.
Sign painting shops.
Sporting goods stores.
Stockbrokers.
Taverns.
Theaters.
Toy stores.
Travel trailer parks and sales.
Wholesale distributing centers. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. Ord. 3619, 4-5-2016)
   C.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Buildings, structures, and accessory uses
customarily incidental to any of the above uses shall be permitted; provided,
that there shall be no manufacturing of products other than such as are
customarily incidental to retail establishments.
   D.   Certain Other Uses: Any other store or shop for retail trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration, or traffic than those above. (Ord., 11-1-
1983)
10-8B-3: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum             Minimum  Maximum         Front   Side              Rear
Lot                 Lot      Percent  Maximum Yard    Yard              Yard
Area                Frontage Coverage Height  Setback Setback           Setback
                                                      1' of setback/
   10,000 square 100'     70%      45'     50'     1' of height when 20'
feet                                                  abutting an R
                                                      district
 
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8B-4: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the C-2 highway commercial and commercial recreation district, a minimum of
three (3) square feet of off street parking space, dedicated to parking and
automobile maneuvering, must be provided for each one square foot of total
floor space. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8B-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the C-2 highway commercial and
commercial recreation district is the same as that in section
10-8A-7 of this chapter for the C-1 convenience commercial district. (Ord., 11-
1-1983)
ARTICLE C. C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8C-1: General Description
10-8C-2: Uses Permitted
10-8C-3: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-8C-4: Off Street Parking
10-8C-5: Signs And Billboards
10-8C-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This commercial district is designed for the conduct of personal and business
services and the general retail trade of the community. It is designed to
accommodate a wide variety of commercial uses in the central business district
or areas of mixed business enterprises. It will not normally be applied in the
case of new commercial areas. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8C-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in a C-3 general commercial district may be used for the
following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in a C-1 or a C-2 commercial district.
   B.   Any other retail, personal service, business service, or professional
use not already mentioned.
   C.   Any public buildings or uses.
   D.   Buildings, structures, and accessory uses customarily incidental to any
of the above uses; provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products
other than such as are customarily incidental to retail establishments. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
10-8C-3: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum Minimum  Maximum         Front   Side    Rear
Lot     Lot      Percent  Maximum Yard    Yard    Yard
Area    Frontage Coverage Height  Setback Setback Setback
None    None     70%      None    None    None    None
 
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8C-4: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the C-3 general commercial district, there shall be provided one off street
parking space for each four hundred (400) square feet of gross retail floor
area. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-8C-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the C-3 general commercial district is
the same as that in section
10-8A-7 of this chapter for the C-1 convenience commercial district. (Ord., 11-
1-1983)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9A-1: General Description
10-9A-2: Standards
10-9A-3: Uses Permitted
10-9A-4: Area, Setback And Height Regulations
10-9A-5: Off Street Parking
10-9A-6: Sewer Service
10-9A-7: Signs And Billboards
10-9A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the I-1 light industrial district is to provide a location for
industries which do not by their nature create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land for industry in a location beneficial to industries and to
prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the traffic generated and other
objectionable influences created in this district, it is necessary to provide a
buffer or setback area between this district and any other zoning district
except heavy industrial district I-2. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9A-2: STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the I-1 light
industrial district after the effective date of this title shall be so operated
as to comply with the following standards:
   A.   Residential: No building shall be used for residential purposes except
that a watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   Retail Sales Or Services: No retail sales or services shall be
permitted except as incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
   C.   Noise: No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other
than that emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 district.
   D.   Toxic, Noxious, Odorous Matter: No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke,
gas, or odorous or particulate matter shall be emitted that is detectable
beyond the lot lines of the zoning lot on which the use is located.
   E.   Vibrations: No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of
the zoning lot on which the use is located.
   F.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residence
district.
   G.   Flammable Materials: The manufacture of flammable materials which
produce explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
   H.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall
be performed within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of
light shall be screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines. (Ord.,
11-1-1983)
10-9A-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted in the I-1 light
industrial district:
Building materials sales.
Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
Compounding, processing and blending chemical products, but not including any
materials which decompose by detonation.
General and administrative offices.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops.
Mail order houses.
Manufacturing and assembling electrical and electronic products and equipment.
Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such processes) products
from wood, cork, glass, leather, fur, plastic, felt and other textiles, but not
including, as a principal operation, the processing of any raw materials.
Printing and binding plants.
Public utility distribution centers.
Research laboratories.
Warehouses and storage facilities.
Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and lift stations.
   B.   Other Uses: Any other manufacturing process or establishment which can
operate in compliance with the aforementioned requirements shall be permitted.
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot
as a principal use shall be permitted. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9A-4: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
following requirements.
 
Minimum Minimum  Maximum  Maximum Front   Side    Rear
Lot     Lot      Percent  Height  Yard    Yard    Yard
Area    Frontage Coverage         Setback Setback Setback
--      --       40%      90'     50'     25'     30'
                                  50' minimum or 1' each 1' of height when
                                  adjacent to residential district
 
(Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be provided, as required in section
10-4-6 of this title. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9A-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the I-1 district shall be erected, commenced, or allowed
to continue, which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
unless and until the county public health officer certifies that a septic tank
or any substitute disposal system can be installed and operated effectively. As
a basis for making his decision, such health officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests shall be made at the
expense of the landowner. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-9A-7: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the I-1 light industrial district, the use of signs and billboards is the
same as that in section
10-8A-7 of this title for the C-1 convenience commercial district. (Ord., 11-1-
1983)
ARTICLE B. I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9B-1: General Description
10-9B-2: Standards
10-9B-3: Uses Permitted
10-9B-4: Area Regulations
10-9B-5: Off Street Parking
10-9B-6: Sewer Service
10-9B-7: Signs And Billboards
10-9B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district is to provide a location for
industries, which may by their nature create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land especially for industry in locations with access to major
streets as designated on the thoroughfare plan, as well as locations generally
accessible to railroad transportation. Because of the nuisances or other
objectionable influences that may be created in this district, it is necessary
to provide a buffer or setback strip between this district and other zoning
districts, except I-1. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9B-2: STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the I-2 heavy
industrial district after the effective date of this title shall be so operated
as to comply with the following standards. No use already established on the
effective date of this title shall be so altered or modified as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the applicable standards established
hereinafter for the I-2 heavy industrial district.
   A.   Residential: No building shall be used for residential purposes, except
that a watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   Retail Sales Or Services: No retail sales or services shall be
permitted, except as incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
   C.   Manufacture Of Goods: No manufacture or assembly of goods shall be
conducted outside a building unless the nearest point of said activity is more
than two hundred feet (200') from the boundary of any use district.
   D.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residence
district.
   E.   Noise; Offensive Emissions: All manufacturing, fabricating, assembly,
disassembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing, and testing of goods,
wares, and merchandise shall be carried on in such a manner as not to be
injurious or offensive by reason of the emission or creation of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter,
odorous, glare, or heat, fire or explosive hazards.
   F.   Detonation: No activities involving storage, utilization, or
manufacture of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be
permitted. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9B-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged
shall comply with the following conditions or restrictions:
Automobile wrecking and junkyards, provided they are enclosed throughout the
entire perimeter by a solid fence not less than eight feet (8') in height.
Blacksmiths, tinsmiths and sheet metal shops.
Bottling works.
Bulk fuel sales and storage.
Canning or preserving factories.
Coal storage plants.
Ice cream production and distribution.
Machine shops.
Machinery rental, sales, and service.
Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing and cleaning,
servicing, or testing, any of the following materials, goods or merchandise:
Apparel.
Beverages (nonalcoholic), processing and bottling.
Building materials specialties.
Clothing.
Compounding and packaging of chemicals.
Cosmetics and toiletries.
Dairy products.
Drugs and pharmaceutical products.
Electrical and acoustic products and components.
Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast).
Furniture.
Glass products.
Ice, dry and natural.
Jewelry.
Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties.
Metal products and utensils.
Musical instruments.
Optical goods.
Paper products, including boxes and containers.
Radio, phonograph recorder and television sets and parts.
Textiles.
Toys and children's vehicles.
Trailers and carts.
Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers.
Meat and vegetable products (processing of), including the slaughter of
animals.
Milk, bottling and distribution.
Monumental stone cutting.
Motor freight terminals.
Pattern shops.
Printing plants.
Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and sleeping facilities
for transient railroad labor.
Sign painting.
Soldering and welding shops.
Spray painting and mixing.
   B.   I-1 District Uses: Any use permitted in the I-1 light industrial
district shall be permitted in this district. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9B-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Area: There are no requirements for minimum lot area in the
heavy industrial district I-2.
   B.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements in the I-2 district are the same
setbacks as required for the I-1 light industrial district.
   C.   Coverage: Buildings shall not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of
the site on which the use is located. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9B-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be provided, as required in section
10-4-6 of this title. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-9B-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the I-2 district shall be erected, commenced, or allowed
to continue, which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
unless and until the county public health officer certifies that a septic tank
or any substitute disposal system can be installed and operated effectively. As
a basis for making his decision, said health officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems necessary. Such tests shall be made at the
expense of the landowner. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
10-9B-7: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the I-2 district, the control of signs and billboards is the same as that in
section
10-8A-7 of this title for the C-1 district. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Zoning Clearance Permit; Fee
10-10-2: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy; Fee
10-10-3: Amendments; Procedure And Fees
10-10-4: Vacation Of Public Easements
10-10-5: Invalidity; Saving Clause
10-10-6: Penalty
10-10-1: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Purpose: The zoning clearance permit is a permit issued by the zoning
administrator which states that a particular development meets all of the
requirements of the zoning title. It is not a building permit and does not
authorize construction, it simply clears the land and structure in terms of
zoning and authorizes the building inspector to issue the building permit. This
permit also provides a good check for the applicant in that any irregularities
can be eliminated before the detailed plans are prepared.
   B.   Existing Buildings: Any building, structure or use lawfully existing at
the time of enactment of this title may be continued even though such building,
structure or use does not conform with the provisions of this title. However,
no structural alteration shall be made, nor shall the use of any land or
building or other structure be changed without a zoning clearance permit issued
authorizing such structural alteration or use change as being in compliance
with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Application For Permit: An application for a zoning clearance permit
shall be made to the zoning administrator by the owner or proposed occupant of
the building or land to be occupied or used, and said application shall state
the location and legal description of said property and set out in detail the
character and nature of the use to be conducted thereon. Within three (3) days,
the zoning administrator shall grant or deny said zoning clearance permit in
accordance with the terms of this title.
   D.   Accompanying Materials: All applications for zoning clearance permits
shall be accompanied by a plat plan, drawn to scale on suitable paper, showing
the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, and the size and location of
the building to be erected and such other information as may be necessary to
satisfy the requirements of these regulations. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
   E.   Fees: Zoning clearance permits shall not be issued until a fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall have been paid. (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005
Code)
   F.   Penalty: Any persons, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than twenty
dollars ($20.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), not including
court costs, for each day the violation exists. Each day constitutes a separate
offense. (Ord. 3036, 3-5-1996)
10-10-2: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY; FEE:
This title shall be enforced by the zoning administrator, acting at the
direction of the chief administrative officer. It shall be a violation of this
title for any person to change, or permit to be changed, the use of the land,
buildings or structures, or erect, move or structurally alter any building or
structure until a building permit has been obtained, under the following
conditions: (Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
   A.   Application For Building Permit: Every application for a building
permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A plat drawn to scale, showing the plot, showing the exact size,
shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location
on the lot of all easements of record or in use, the exact size and location on
the lot of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and
location on the lot of the structure or building proposed to be built,
repaired, altered, erected, or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of
parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off
street parking and loading facilities, if such be for a business, commercial or
industrial building.
      2.   A declaration of the existing or intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designated to accommodate.
      3.   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed
to determine compliance with these regulations.
      4.   A survey, prepared by a competent surveyor in the state of Oklahoma,
of the boundaries of the lot on which the improvement is proposed to be located
shall be required by the zoning administrator where the boundaries of the lot
are not clearly defined by the survey pins and monuments.
      5.   The zoning administrator shall be a person who, in the judgment and
opinion of the city council, is competent by reason of building experience to
properly cause inspections to be made and to determine whether permits should
be granted. The inspector shall serve by appointment of the city council and
his term shall begin upon the adoption of this title and one year thereafter
and shall continue to serve unless removed by the city council, who may remove
without cause.
      6.   All applications shall be considered filed with the building
inspector by the filing of the same with the city clerk who shall deliver such
application to the building inspector. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
   B.   Fee: Whenever any structure or building is to be erected, moved or
structurally altered, a building permit shall first be obtained from the
building inspector. The cost of such permit shall be thirty dollars ($30.00).
(Ord., 11-1-1983; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No change shall be made in the use of any
land, building or structure after the adoption of this title until a
certificate of occupancy is obtained from the city clerk certifying that all of
the provisions of this title are complied with. Whenever a building permit is
issued for the erection of a new building or structure, an occupancy permit
shall not be required, except where the use of the building or structure is
changed from that for which the permit is issued or where the intended use is
not clearly stated on the building permit. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-10-3: AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE AND FEES:
   A.   Recommendations; Hearing: The city council may, by ordinance, amend,
change, or repeal this title or any part thereof; provided however, that before
the city council shall amend, change, or repeal this title or any part thereof,
it shall request the planning commission to submit its recommendation on such
proposed amendment, change, or repeal. Such recommendation on such proposed
amendment, change, or repeal, whichever the case may be, shall be made after
not less than one public hearing thereon, which hearing may be adjourned from
time to time. After considering the commission's recommendation at public
hearing for which public notice shall be given, the city council may approve
the recommendation in whole or in part, or return the recommendation to the
planning commission for further consideration.
      1.   The planning commission may, upon its own initiative, hold at least
one public hearing on a proposed amendment, change or repeal of this title or
any part thereof and any recommendations therefrom shall be transmitted to the
council. The city council shall consider and act upon such recommendation in
the same manner as herein set forth for recommendations requested by the
council.
      2.   Notice of the dates, time and place of a public hearing considering
amendments or changes to district regulations, restrictions, or district
boundaries shall include at least one publication notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not less than fifteen (15) days, but not more
than thirty (30) days, prior to such public hearing. If a proposed amendment is
for any proposed zoning change, except when proposed by the city, public notice
shall also include the posting of at least one sign on such lot, parcel or
tract of land and such sign shall there remain for a period of twenty (20)
successive days prior to the public hearing, including the day immediately
preceding the day for which such notice hearing is scheduled. The sign and
lettering thereon shall be of sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and
legible from the public street or streets toward which it faces. Public notice
shall also include notice mailed by the secretary of the planning commission to
all owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the
exterior boundary of the subject property. The notice shall contain the legal
description and the street address or approximate location of the property, the
present and sought zoning classification of the property, and the date, time,
and place of the public hearing. It shall be the duty of the owner or
authorized representative to provide a list of the owners within the three
hundred foot (300') radius certified to be accurate by a bonded abstractor,
attorney, or such other entity as may be acceptable to the secretary. The
petition shall be deemed to be not filed until said list is provided. The
publication and mailed notice, as herein referred, shall be on the forms
provided by the secretary of the planning commission, shall provide all
information required by said form, and shall include a map of the area to be
affected which indicates street names or numbers, streams, or other significant
landmarks in said area.
   B.   Petitions: Petition for amendment to the zoning ordinance and zoning
map shall henceforth be filed with the planning commission by the owner of the
property concerned, or duly authorized representative thereof, on a standard
form furnished by the commission. All petitions for amendment proposing a
change in zoning district classification shall be accompanied by a sketch plan
of the area proposed to be rezoned, drawn to approximate scale and showing the
boundaries and dimensions of the tract, the outline of existing and proposed
buildings and structures, the size and location of off street parking lots, the
type of surfacing proposed for said lots, and the plan of structures and the
drives proposed for ingress and egress. An area map showing land of all
abutting property owners shall also be submitted unless such is shown on the
tract sketch.
   C.   Protest: If a protest against a proposed amendment or change to the
regulations, restrictions, or district boundaries is filed, at least three (3)
days before the public hearing, by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the area of the lots included in the proposed change or the owners of fifty
percent (50%) or more of the area of lots within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the exterior boundary of the property included in the proposed
change, then such amendment or change shall not become effective except by a
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the city council.
   D.   Filing Fee: Upon filing of a petition of amendment to these
regulations, the property owner or his duly authorized representative shall pay
a filing fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) to the secretary of the
planning commission. All fees collected by the planning commission shall be
deposited with the city clerk and credited to the general fund of the city.
      1.   The fees or expenses for all public notices herein required pursuant
to petition for amendment shall be paid by the owner of the property or his
duly authorized representative. The form for such notice shall be established
by the city council. The city council or the planning commission, as it
concerns their respective hearings, shall designate the agency or agencies
which shall affect the public notices and the number of notices to be used
pursuant to this title.
      2.   If pursuant to a petition for amendment the city council votes to
rezone a lot, parcel, or tract of land, the owner of such land shall pay the
cost of the ordinance publication. Such payment shall be submitted to the city
clerk, and the city clerk shall not cause the ordinance to be published prior
to such payment.
   E.   Final Determination Or Failure To Recommend; Appeal: In the event the
planning commission fails to set up a petition for amendment for public hearing
within twenty (20) days after its proper filing with the planning commission at
a regular scheduled meeting; or, if after public hearing, the planning
commission fails to recommend that this title be amended in accordance with
such petition for amendment, such failure shall be deemed the final
determination and decision of the planning commission. The final determination
of the planning commission may be appealed to the city council, provided a
written request for a hearing before the city council is served on the chairman
of the planning commission within fifteen (15) days after the final
determination of the planning commission.
   F.   Zoning Map Changes: The planning commission shall supervise the
official zoning map and shall keep same up to date with all changes and
amendments. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-10-4: VACATION OF PUBLIC EASEMENTS:
Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the portion
vacated shall have the same district classification as the land to which the
vacated portion accrues. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-10-5: INVALIDITY; SAVING CLAUSE:
In case any portion of this title shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remainder of the title shall not thereby be invalid, but
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord., 11-1-1983)
10-10-6: PENALTY:
A violation of this title shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this title shall be fined not less than
twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 3036, 3-5-1996)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
These subdivision regulations and minimum standards for land development are
adopted by ordinance passed by the city council under the authority granted by
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 41-101 et seq. (Ord., 6-1976; amd. 2005 Code)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The regulation of land subdivision for residential and other uses is
widely accepted as a function of municipal government in the United States. It
has become widely recognized as a method of ensuring sound community growth and
the safeguarding of the interest of the homeowner, the subdivider, and the
local government.
   B.   The regulations of this title are designed, intended and should be
administered in a manner to:
      1.   Implement the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight;
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the whole community;
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract, including the
maximum practical retention of its natural beauty;
      6.   Reconcile any differences of interest; and
      7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (Ord.,
6-1976)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The regulations of this title shall apply to all plans, plats or replats of
land laid out in lots or plats, and the streets, alleys or other portions of
the same, intended to be dedicated to public or private use, within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A minor right of way, dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or green strips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside of
which buildings may not be erected.
CITY COUNCIL: The legislative body of the city of Vinita.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive development plan for the city which has
been officially adopted to provide long range development policies for the area
subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes, among
other things, the plan for land use, land development, circulation and
community facilities.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street or
which abuts two (2) or more streets.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for filing
of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and with
complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining blocks, streets, alleys,
public areas and other dimensions of land.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY (SOMETIMES CALLED LAND PLANNING): A map of a proposed land
subdivision showing the character and proposed layout of the tract in
sufficient detail to indicate the suitability of the proposed subdivision of
land.
STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
having one closed end terminated by a turnaround.
STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the major street plan.
STREET, MINOR: Any street not classified as a major street on the major street
plan.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity, acting
as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more lots, parcels, tracts,
or areas, any one of which when divided has an area of less than ten (10)
acres, or any division of land involving the vacation or dedication of right of
way or alignment of any existing or proposed street or highway or public
utility easement, or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided into lots,
sites, or parcels. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Plat Approval
11-2-2: Official Recording
11-2-3: Agenda
11-2-4: Filing Fees
11-2-5: Exemption
11-2-1: PLAT APPROVAL:
For all cases of subdivision within the scope of this title, a plat of the land
in question shall be drawn and submitted to the planning commission and city
council for their approval or disapproval, as provided in this title. (Ord., 6-
1976)
11-2-2: OFFICIAL RECORDING:
No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be filed in the office of
the county clerk until it shall have been approved by the planning commission
and by the city council as set forth in this title. All final plats shall be
filed within two (2) years of date of approval, and no lots shall be sold from
any plat until recorded. Failure to record the plat within two (2) years of the
date of the planning commission and council approval, whichever is the later,
shall void all approvals. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-2-3: AGENDA:
Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be placed on the
agenda of the planning commission only after fulfilling the appropriate
requirements of this title. However, a plat not meeting all of the requirements
may be submitted, provided the subdivider presents with the plat a written
request for specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the reasons. (Ord., 6-
1976)
11-2-4: FILING FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: To defray partially the costs of notification and
administration procedures, there shall be paid to the city clerk at the time of
submission of the preliminary plat a fee in the following amount: fifty dollars
($50.00), plus five dollars ($5.00) per lot. All receipts from this source
shall be paid into the general fund. (Ord., 6-1976; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Portion Of Plat Submitted; Limitation On Fee: Where only a portion of
an approved preliminary plat is submitted for final approval, a final plat of
the remaining area may be submitted at any time within two (2) years of the
preliminary approval without payment of an additional filing fee by the
subdivider, if the final plat for the additional area conforms substantially
with the approved preliminary plat. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-2-5: EXEMPTION:
Plats containing three (3) lots or fewer may be exempted from the provisions of
all or part of procedural provisions upon written approval of the planning
commission. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 3
URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Principles Of Design
11-3-1: PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN:
The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of design
of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design requires
the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of land within
the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the principles established by the comprehensive plan for land
use, circulation, community facilities and public utility services, and in
accordance with the following general principles:
   A.   Residential Neighborhoods:
      1.   It is intended that the urban area shall be designed as a group of
integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial, industrial and
public facilities.
      2.   The neighborhood, as a planning unit, is intended as an area
principally for residential use, and of a size that can be served by one
elementary school.
      3.   Provision for religious, recreational, educational and shopping
facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be considered in
the design of each neighborhood.
   B.   Size: The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping, and off-street parking and loading
facilities in compliance with the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Arrangement:
      1.   The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features.
      2.   Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved.
      3.   Methods for the accomplishment of this preservation by the
subdivider and/or his subcontractor shall be presented to the planning
commission.
      4.   The system of surfaced walkways and roadways and the lot layout
should be designed to take advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
   D.   Circulation: Circulation within the urban area should be provided in
accordance with the following design criteria:
      1.   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all arterial
streets and highways as shown on the major street plan. Arterial streets should
be located on the perimeter of the residential neighborhoods.
      2.   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel of
land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in a
manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future plan expansion will not require the conversion of minor streets to
arterial routes.
      3.   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street system.
      4.   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided only
on minor streets.
      5.   Pedestrian ways should be separated from roadways used by vehicular
traffic. If surfaced walkways are provided, they should be designed to provide
all residential building sites with direct access to all neighborhood
facilities, including the elementary school, parks and playgrounds, churches
and shopping centers.
   E.   Development Standards: Minimum standards for development are contained
in the zoning ordinance, the building code and in this title. However, the
general plan expresses policies designed to achieve an optimum quality of
development in the urban area. If only the minimum standards are followed, as
expressed by the various ordinances regulating land development, a
standardization of development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban
setting. Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and
spirit of the policies expressed in the general plan and in this title and to
permit the maximum exercises by the initiative of the developer rather than be
limited to the minimum standards required herein. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Streets
11-4-2: Alleys
11-4-3: Easements
11-4-4: Blocks
11-4-5: Lots
11-4-6: Building Lines
11-4-7: Neighborhood Unit Development
11-4-1: STREETS:
The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets
shall conform to all of the elements of the comprehensive plan and shall be
designed in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Major Streets:
      1.   Major streets shall be planned to conform with the major street
plan. Where such is not shown in the major street plan, the arrangement of
streets in a subdivision shall either: provide for the continuation or
appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding areas; or
conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the planning
commission; to meet a particular topographic situation.
      2.   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the planning commission may require such treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   C.   Tentative Plan: Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of
the tract owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan
of a proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be
prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
   D.   Large Lots: When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building
lots or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the
logical location and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision,
with provision for adequate utility easements and connections for such
resubdivision.
   E.   Street Jogs:
      1.   Street jogs located at intersections are traffic problems.
      2.   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') should be avoided.
      3.   The center of a street intersection cannot be located closer than
one hundred fifty feet (150') to any bridge.
   F.   Street Width: Street right-of-way widths shall be not less than the
following:
Major streets:
 Primary with median    120 feet
 Primary without median 100 feet
 Secondary              80 feet
Minor streets:
 Collector              60 feet
 Minor                  50 feet
 Cul-de-sac             50 feet
 
   G.   Street Grades:
      1.   The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following, except
where unusual topographic conditions justify, in the opinion of the planning
commission, a modification of these standards:
 
Major streets:
 Primary     5 percent
 Secondary   7 percent
Minor streets 10 percent
 
      2.   No street grade shall be less than 0.5 percent.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: A cul-de-sac shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') in
length, measured from the entrance to the center of the turnaround. A cul-de-
sac shall be provided with a turnaround having a radius of not less than fifty
feet (50') at the property line and not less than forty two feet (42') at the
curb line.
   I.   Half Streets:
      1.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this title; and provided, that the planning commission finds it
will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the street
easement when the adjoining property is subdivided.
      2.   Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   J.   Arrangement: The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no
undue hardship in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The planning
commission may require the dedication of street rights of way to facilitate the
development of adjoining properties.
   K.   Driveways: Driveways of a width sufficient for the parking of two (2)
cars are encouraged where the function of the street renders curbside parking
inadvisable.
   L.   Street Names And Numbers:
      1.   No street names and numbers shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets.
      2.   Street names and numbers shall be subject to the approval of the
planning commission, and an accepted standard design for street signs be used.
(Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-2: ALLEYS:
   A.   Requirements; Exception: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and
industrial districts, except that the planning commission may waive this
requirement where other definite and assured provision is made for service
access, such as off street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and
adequate for the uses proposed.
   B.   Width: Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall be not less
than twenty feet (20') in width.
   C.   Residential Areas: Alleys are not required for residential areas, but
when provided shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   D.   Intersections: Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall
be avoided.
   E.   Dead End Alleys: Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible.
   F.   Obstructions: No obstructions shall be permitted in areas reserved for
alleys. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utilities: Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than seven
feet (7') wide shall be provided along each rear lot line, and along side lot
lines where necessary for use by public and private utilities.
   B.   Drainage:
      1.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage channel
or stream which drains one hundred sixty (160) acres or more of land, there
shall be provided a right of way for drainage and public access and public
utility purposes adequate to contain all of the runoff from a 50-year maximum
flood.
      2.   The right of way shall include all of the land within the
subdivision that has an elevation below the 50-year maximum flood elevation
which shall be calculated in accordance with, and shall be adequate to provide
for, the drainage requirements of the ordinances and regulations relating
thereto. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length:
      1.   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than one thousand
eight hundred feet (1,800'), measured along the center line of the block.
      2.   When a block exceeds six hundred feet (600') in length, the planning
commission may require a dedicated easement not less than fifteen feet (15') in
width and a paved crosswalk not less than four feet (4') in width to provide
pedestrian access across the block.
   B.   Width:
      1.   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width
to allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
      2.   Blocks intended for business and industrial use should be of a width
suitable for the intended use, with due allowance for off street parking and
loading facilities. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-5: LOTS:
Lot areas and dimensions shall be as set forth in the zoning ordinance of the
city. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-6: BUILDING LINES:
Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions as follows:
   A.   Front: A front building line shall be located twenty five feet (25')
back of the street right of way line.
   B.   Side: A side yard building line on the side of a corner lot abutting
the street shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15') back of the street
right of way when such lot is back to back with another corner lot, and not
less than twenty feet (20') back of the street right of way line in every other
case.
   C.   Location Within Building Lines: Restrictions requiring buildings to be
located within the building lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the
plat or on a separate recorded instrument. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-4-7: NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever a subdivision is developed as a neighborhood unit, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the
planning commission may vary the requirements of this chapter in order to allow
the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but at the
same time protect the convenience, health, safety, and welfare of the probable
future residents of the subdivision as well as the character of the surrounding
property and the general welfare of the entire community. However, in no case
shall the lot area be less than required in the applicable zoning district of
the zoning ordinance of the city. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Plan Preparation
11-5-2: Surety Bond
11-5-3: Permanent Markers
11-5-4: Street Improvements
11-5-5: Surfaced Walkways
11-5-6: Water Lines
11-5-7: Sanitary Sewers
11-5-8: Storm Sewers And Drainage
11-5-9: Maintenance And Supervision
11-5-1: PLAN PREPARATION:
Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by a qualified
engineer, registered in the state of Oklahoma. Two (2) sets of prints of the
proposed plans and specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the
planning commission. One set of as-built plans and specifications, certified
and signed by an engineer registered in the state of Oklahoma, shall be filed
with the city clerk prior to the acceptance by the city council of any
improvement installed by the subdivider. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-2: SURETY BOND:
In lieu of completion of the improvements herein required, the city council
shall require the subdivider to file a surety bond with the city clerk to
ensure the actual construction of such improvements according of the plans and
specifications approved by the planning commission within a period of time not
to exceed two (2) years from the date of approval of the final plat. Such bond
shall be in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) surety and conditions
satisfactory to the city council. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-3: PERMANENT MARKERS:
Each block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or pins not less than three-
fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and twenty four inches (24") long level with
the finished grade; and each subdivision shall be marked with a permanent
concrete marker capped with a noncorrosive metal plate. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-4: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and otherwise
improve all streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly
serve the subdivision in accordance with the specifications of the city.
Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that required a street facility
that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of the
subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the portion of the
cost of an improvement required to serve only the subdivision, as determined by
the planning commission. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-5: SURFACED WALKWAYS:
   A.   Location: A system of surfaced walkways shall be provided for adequate
pedestrian circulation on all approaches to focal points of pedestrian traffic,
such as school sites and shopping centers. Adequacy of the surfaced walkway
system shall be determined by the overall design and function of the
neighborhood.
   B.   Connection With Existing Walkways: The planning commission may require
the construction of such surfaced walkways to connect with existing or proposed
future walkways in areas adjacent to the subdivision where such walkways are
needed for pedestrian circulation. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-6: WATER LINES:
   A.   Lines And Fire Hydrants: The subdivider shall install water lines and
fire hydrants, and installation shall be in accordance with the specifications
governing water line construction.
   B.   Individual Supplies: Whenever a public water supply is not reasonably
accessible, the planning commission may require the subdivider to provide an
adequate potable water supply to serve all of the lots within the subdivision.
All community or individual water supplies so constructed shall be in
accordance with minimum requirements of the state health department. (Ord., 6-
1976)
11-5-7: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Installation: The subdivider shall install sanitary sewers whenever a
sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible as determined by the planning
commission. Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications governing sanitary sewer construction.
   B.   Septic Tanks; Private Systems: Whenever a sanitary sewer is not
reasonably accessible, septic tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used
in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Before construction of individual sewage disposal units, all plans
and specifications shall be submitted to the health department for approval,
and such approval shall be based upon the minimum specifications of the state
department of health.
      2.   No individual sewage disposal unit shall be covered or placed in
operation until final inspection for compliance with approved plans and
specifications has been made by the health department.
      3.   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer than
ten feet (10') to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located.
   C.   Large Subdivisions: When subdivisions contain forty (40) acres or more,
the planning commission may require the subdivider to install sanitary sewers
and a disposal plant that is adequate to serve all of the lots within the
subdivision. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-8: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE:
Storm sewers or adequate drainage shall be provided. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-5-9: MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION:
Where the subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply
systems, or other physical facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of
the area, or that are of common use or benefit which are not or cannot be
satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency, provision shall be made
which is acceptable to the agency having jurisdiction over the location and
maintenance of such facilities for the proper and continuous operation,
maintenance and supervision of such facilities. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 6
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Submission To Planning Commission
11-6-2: Certification Of Design
11-6-3: Contents Of Preliminary Plat
11-6-4: Planning Commission Action
11-6-1: SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION:
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for submission to the planning
commission. Two (2) copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
planning commission not less than ten (10) days prior to the meeting at which
it is to be considered. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-6-2: CERTIFICATION OF DESIGN:
The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the
registered engineer preparing the plat that he has, to the best of his ability,
designed the subdivision in accordance with good engineering practices. (Ord.,
6-1976)
11-6-3: CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn at the scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') and shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
   A.   The scale, northpoint and date.
   B.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
   C.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and the
registered engineer preparing the plat.
   D.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision referenced
to existing or proposed major streets and to government section lines, and
including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of which the
proposed subdivision is a part.
   E.   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
(2') referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey bench mark or monument.
   F.   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses, and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision; provided however, that actual measured
distances shall not be required.
   G.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements and
setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions.
   H.   The location, size and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent to the
proposed subdivision; and the location, layout, type and proposed size of the
following structures and utilities:
      1.   Water mains.
      2.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals.
      3.   Storm sewers, culverts, and drainage structures.
      4.   Street improvements.
   I.   The certificate of approval of the plans and specifications by the
health department, when septic tanks or individual sewage disposal devices are
to be installed.
   J.   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the
proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements
relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the proposed
plat.
   K.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term,
expressway, primary thoroughfare, secondary thoroughfare, collector, or minor
in parentheses, directly on each street.
   L.   The distance must be shown on preliminary plats from section corner or
quarter-section corner to the center line of each street intersecting a major
thoroughfare. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-6-4: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The planning commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove the
plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its submission by the applicant. If
the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally, the reasons for
such action shall be stated in writing. Unless stipulation for additional time
is agreed to by the subdivider, if no action be taken by the planning
commission at the end of sixty (60) days after submission, the plat shall be
deemed to have been approved. On conditionally approving a plat, the planning
commission may require submission of a revised preliminary plat. If the plat
conforms to all of the standards, or after the applicant and the planning
commission agree upon any revision which shall be filed with the planning
commission on a revised copy, the subdivider may proceed with the laying out of
streets and roads, the preparation of utility plans and with the preparation of
a final plat. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 7
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Submission To Planning Commission
11-7-2: Time Of Submission
11-7-3: Contents Of Final Plat
11-7-4: Planning Commission Action
11-7-5: Council Action
11-7-6: Recording Of Plat
11-7-1: SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION:
A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth or reproducible mylar shall
be submitted to the office of the planning commission not less than ten (10)
days before the planning commission meeting at which it is to be considered for
final approval. At the same time, there shall be submitted five (5) complete
sets of the proposed plans and specifications for all improvements; and one
copy of the proposed plat restrictions. The final plat may be approved subject
to stipulations and conditions recommended by the planning commission.
Corrected final improvement plans and specifications (as-built plans) shall be
filed with the planning commission. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-7-2: TIME OF SUBMISSION:
   A.   Time Limit: The final plat of a part or all of the proposed subdivision
shall be submitted to the planning commission and city council for final
approval within one year of the date on which the preliminary plan was
approved. If not submitted for final approval within such time, the preliminary
plan shall be considered as having been disapproved unless the planning
commission agrees to an extension of time.
   B.   Filing With County Clerk: The final plat shall be filed in the office
of the county clerk within two (2) years after approval by the city council and
planning commission, whichever is later, or if not filed within such time, said
approval shall be considered as having been voided. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-7-3: CONTENTS OF FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall show:
   A.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced.
   B.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified.
   C.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent lands, with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names.
   D.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
   E.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction of
an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length and/or bearing shall be given.
   F.   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets and
alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys and easements, which shall be
properly located.
   G.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and bearing
or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right angles,
the angle or bearing value may be omitted.
   H.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to public
use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area marked "public".
   I.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision and
the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" and "not a park".
   J.   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements for
public services or utilities with dimensions, showing their location.
   K.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns.
   L.   The proper acknowledgements of owners.
   M.   The following which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
      1.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed.
      2.   Engineer's certificate of survey, signed, and his seal.
      3.   Certificate for release of mortgage when necessary for any portion
dedicated to the public, signed.
      4.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county clerk, which directly affect the
land being subdivided.
      5.   Certificate of planning commission approval.
      6.   Certificate of city council acceptance of ways, easements, and
public land dedications.
      7.   Treasurer's certificate.
   N.   A title which shall include:
      1.   Name of the subdivision.
      2.   Name of city, county and state.
      3.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to section,
range and township.
   O.   When septic tanks or individual sewage disposal devices have been
installed, the certificate of final inspection by the health department shall
accompany the final plat. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-7-4: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Time Limit: The planning commission shall act upon the final plat
within forty five (45) days after it has been submitted for final approval.
This approval and the date thereof shall be shown on the plat over the
signature of the planning commission chairman. Unless stipulation for
additional time is agreed to by the subdivider and if no action is taken by the
planning commission at the end of forty five (45) days after submission, the
plat shall be deemed to have been approved.
   B.   Disapproval: If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal
shall be stated in writing. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-7-5: COUNCIL ACTION:
Before recording the final plat, it shall be submitted to the city council for
approval and for acceptance of public ways and service and utility easements
and land dedicated to public use. This approval of the plat shall be shown over
the signature of the mayor and attested to by the city clerk or his deputy. The
disapproval of any plat or plan by the council shall be deemed a refusal of the
proposed dedication shown thereon. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-7-6: RECORDING OF PLAT:
After final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required signatures on
the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide the planning commission with
one reproducible tracing or film and one copy of the signed final plat
restrictions; said tracing and restrictions to be filed in the planning
commission office. The applicant shall file the original tracing and one copy
of the plat restrictions with the county clerk. (Ord., 6-1976)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-8-1: Variations And Exceptions
11-8-2: Administration And Amendment
11-8-3: Penalty
11-8-1: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in this title would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission may vary or modify,
except as otherwise indicated, such requirements of design, but not of
procedure or improvements, so that the subdivider may develop his property in a
reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and interests
of the city are protected and the general intent and spirit of this title
preserved. Such modification may be granted upon written request of the
subdivider stating the reason(s) for each modification and may be waived by
three-fourths (3/4) vote of the regular membership of the planning commission.
(Ord., 6-1976)
11-8-2: ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT:
The planning commission may from time to time adopt, amend and make public
rules and regulations for the administration of this title to the end that the
public be informed and that approval of plat be expedited. This title may be
enlarged or amended by the city council after public hearing, due notice of
which shall be given as required by law. (Ord., 6-1976)
11-8-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this title shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-9-13 of this code. (2005 Code)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Authorization; Findings; Interpretation
12-1-2: Statement Of Purpose; Methods
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-5: General Administrative Provisions
12-1-6: Permit Procedures
12-1-7: Variance Procedures
12-1-8: General Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
12-1-9: Specific Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
12-1-10: Subdivision Proposals
12-1-11: Areas Of Shallow Flooding
12-1-12: Floodways
12-1-1: AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Authorization: The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has, in 82
Oklahoma Statutes section 1601 et seq., delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
   B.   Findings:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be: 1) considered as minimum requirements; 2) liberally
construed in favor of the governing body; and 3) deemed neither to limit nor
repeal any other powers granted under state statutes. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE; METHODS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   B.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water, and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means
of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for the following purposes; which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a "habitable floor".
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
"start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (public law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
"Start of construction" does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started; or b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety
code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A "variance",
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-4: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The city council of the city of Vinita designates the
mayor of Vinita, Oklahoma, or their designee as floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of national flood insurance program regulations in 44 CFR pertaining
to floodplain management. (Ord. 3614, 12-15-2015)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the Oklahoma water resources board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other sources, in order to administer the provisions
of sections
12-1-8 through
12-1-12 of this chapter.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord.
2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-5: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands Affected By Chapter: This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of Vinita, Oklahoma.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For
Vinita, Oklahoma", dated June 1, 1981, with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps and flood boundary and floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   C.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to
ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions,
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision unlawfully
made thereunder. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-6: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Permit; Required Information: Application for a
development permit shall be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms
furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, and the location of
the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed.
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
12-1-9B of this chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
12-1-4B1 of this chapter.
   B.   Basis For Approval Or Denial; Factors: Approval or denial of a
development permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the
provisions of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems.
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-7: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Hearing And Judgment:
      1.   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   B.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      2.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   C.   Issuance Of Variances:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
12-1-6B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   D.   Conditions For Granting: Upon consideration of the factors noted above
and the intent of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter (subsection
12-1-2A of this chapter).
   E.   Denial Of Variances: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   F.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon: a) showing a good and
sufficient cause; b) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and c) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   G.   Requirements For Issuance: Variances may be issued by a community for
new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that: 1)
the criteria outlined in subsections A through F of this section are met; and
2) the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-8: GENERAL FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-9: SPECIFIC FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in: a) subsection
12-1-4B8 of this chapter; b) subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter; or c) subsection
12-1-10C of this chapter; the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
subsection
12-1-6A1 of this chapter is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A,
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with subsection
12-1-8A of this chapter.
      3.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within zones Al-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection D1
of this section. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-10: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All subdivision proposals including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with subsection
12-1-1B and section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Development Permit Requirements: All proposals for the development of
subdivisions including manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet
development permit requirements of subsection
12-1-5C and section
12-1-6 of this chapter; and the provisions of sections
12-1-8 through
12-1-12 of this chapter.
   C.   Base Flood Elevation: Base flood elevation data shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development, including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to subsection
12-1-4B8 or 12-1-5B of this chapter.
   D.   Drainage: All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   E.   Utilities: All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-11: AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING:
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (1')
to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   Residential Structures: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no
depth number is specified).
   B.   Nonresidential Structures: All new construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified), or;
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads or effects of buoyancy.
   C.   Certification: A registered professional engineer or architect shall
submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of
this section, as proposed in subsection
12-1-6A1 of this chapter, are satisfied.
   D.   Drainage Paths: Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
12-1-12: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways, located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply;
   A.   Encroachments: Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development unless
certification by a professional registered engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   New Construction, Substantial Improvements: If subsection A of this
section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section
and sections
12-1-8 through
12-1-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2717, 6-2-1987)
