CITY CODE
OF
WAURIKA, OKLAHOMA
Code current through:
Ord. 1082024-01, passed 1-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Waurika, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 01082024-01, passed January 8, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10142019-04
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A COMPILATION OF CITY ORDINANCES ENTITLED
THE WAURIKA MUNICIPAL CODE, AND ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR REPEALER
OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF
AMENDING AND SUPPLEMENTING SUCH CODE; PROVIDING FOR PUBLISHING THE NAME OF EACH
TITLE AND A SUMMARY OF THEIR CONTENT.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF CITY COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF
WAURIKA, OKLAHOMA:
SECTION I. That the compilation of city ordinances, is hereby adopted and
enacted as the "Waurika Municipal Code, 2019," which code shall supersede all
general and permanent ordinances of the city adopted on or before the 14th day
of October, 2019, to the extent provided in section 2 hereof.
SECTION II. That all provisions of such code shall be in full force and effect
from and after the date of this ordinance's publication and all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature of the city, and not included in such code or
recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby repealed
from and after the effective date of this code.
SECTION III. That the repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
SECTION IV. That unless another penalty is expressly provided, a violation of
any provision of such code, or any provisions of any rule or regulation adopted
or issued pursuant thereto, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs and fees as provided by the code.
SECTION V. That any and all additions and amendments to such code, when passed
and approved in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and board
of commissioners to make the same a part of such code, shall be deemed to be
incorporated in such code so that reference to such code shall be understood
and intended to include such additions and amendments.
SECTION VI. That in case of the amendment of any section of such code for which
a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 4 of this
ordinance shall apply to the section as amended.
SECTION VII. Any ordinance adopted after the 14th day of October, 2019, which
amends or refers to ordinances which have been codified in such code shall be
construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of such code.
SECTION VIII. The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances,
although omitted from this code, shall not be affected by such omission
therefrom and the adoption of this code shall not repeal or amend any such
ordinance or part of such ordinance omitted therefrom. Among the temporary and/
or special ordinances not repealed or amended by this code are the following:
Ordinances relating to special paving or sewer districts and special
assessments; vacating, opening and dedicating specific streets and alleys;
relating to specific bond issues; annexing territory to or excluding it from
the city; designating or amending land use and/or zoning; relating to grade and
alignment of specific streets; granting railroad use of specific streets and
alleys; naming, or changing the name of, specific streets and alleys; abating
special nuisances; and all other temporary and/or special ordinances.
Ordinances granting franchises shall not be repealed or amended by the adoption
of this code.
SECTION IX. This ordinance and the recodification of this code is authorized by
11 O.S. §§ 14-101 - 111, as amended.
APPROVED AND PASSED this 14th day of October, 2019.
                        /s/ Gary Duncan
                        Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michael W. Bryant
Michael W. Bryant, City Clerk
(SEAL)
CHARTER
City
of
WAURIKA
OKLAHOMA
CITY CHARTER
Adopted, election of April 27, 1951
Approved by Governor, May 1, 1951
Amended per Resolution 0115-14-1R,
passed by electors April 1, 2014
Amended per Resolution 08102020-10,
passed by electors November 3, 2020
Amended per Resolution 4900000109,
passed by electors January 22, 2021
Preamble
We, the citizens of the City of Waurika, under authority of the Constitution
and laws of Oklahoma, do ordain and establish this Charter for the City of
Waurika, in Jefferson County, Oklahoma.
Article I
Section 1.
The Municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of Waurika,
Jefferson County, Oklahoma, shall remain and continue to be a body politic and
corporate, under the same name and with the same boundaries, with power and
authority to change its boundaries in the future in the manner provided by the
general laws of the State of Oklahoma. Upon the adoption of this Charter, the
ward boundaries of the City shall be and remain as heretofore fixed and
designated; but the Board of City Commissioners may thereafter change the
boundaries and number of the wards by ordinance.
Article II
Section 2.
The City of Waurika shall have perpetual succession; and it shall own, hold,
and possess all property of every kind heretofore owned, held or possessed by
the said City, and it shall assume, manage, and execute all trusts in any way
connected therewith.
Section 3.
The City shall succeed to all the property rights and liabilities, and shall
acquire and have all benefits, and shall assume all bonds, debts and legal
obligations of the City of Waurika as constituted prior to the adoption of this
Charter.
Section 4.
This City may sue and be sued in the name of "The City of Waurika, Oklahoma",
and in that name it may contract and be contracted with, and may plead,
intervene, prosecute, and defend suits and actions in all courts and before
other bodies and tribunals. The City shall have power to acquire property, real
and personal, by purchase or in any other manner, within or without the limits
of the City, deemed necessary for the public good; and it may own, hold, use,
lease, sell and convey any such property.
Section 5.
The City may have and use a common seal and may alter the same at pleasure.
Section 6.
The City may receive gifts and bequests of property of every kind, either in
fee simple or in trust for charitable or other public purposes and may do all
things necessary or convenient in executing such trust.
Section 7.
Such City shall have the power, within or without its territorial limits, to
acquire by purchase or condemnation or otherwise, construct, lease, supplement,
maintain and operate water works, light and power generating plants and
distribution systems, telephone systems, parks, convention halls, community
buildings and other Municipal buildings, sewer systems and sewer disposal
plants, libraries, hospitals, cemeteries, and all other public utilities or
works which are local in use; and may do all things necessary or convenient in
acquiring, maintaining and operating the same. The said City may purchase, in
whole or in part, any existing public utility, plant, land, or franchise, or
acquire the same by eminent domain or other proceedings at law; and acquire by
purchase, condemnation or otherwise, within or without the territorial limits
of the City, such lands and other property as may be necessary to execute the
powers granted in this section, the City may issue its negotiable bonds to any
amount when authorized by a majority of the tax paying voters voting thereon at
a general or special election.
Section 8.
This City shall have and exercise all powers conferred upon cities by the
Constitution of the State of Oklahoma and by the laws of the State not rendered
inoperative by this Charter. It shall have all legislative, executive,
judicial, proprietary and police powers that shall be necessary, convenient and
proper in conducting the affairs and business of the City and promoting the
interest, rights and welfare of its inhabitants, as fully as if such powers
were enumerated at length herein; and the enumeration of any particular powers
of the City shall not limit the plenary powers thus secured to and provided for
the City. No law hereafter enacted by the State of Oklahoma shall limit,
diminish or repeal any rights and powers conferred on the City by this Charter.
There is expressly reserved to the City all governmental, proprietary and
police powers necessary or appurtenant to Municipal corporations, including
those expressed herein, those necessarily appurtenant thereto, and those now
hereafter granted municipalities by the Constitution and laws of Oklahoma.
Section 9.
The City of Waurika shall succeed to, own, possess and control all books,
records, documents, and other property, real and personal and otherwise, and
all those in action and claims belonging to and possessed by the City of
Waurika prior to and at the time this Charter shall become effective, and shall
be subject to and liable for all legal debts, judgments, warrants and bonds for
which said City is legally bound at the time this Charter becomes effective.
Section 10.
All valid existing ordinances of this City not inconsistent with this Charter
or inapplicable under the altered form of government provided by the Charter
shall continue in full force until altered, amended, or repealed by the
legislative authority of said City, or until they expire by their own
limitations. No existing right, action, suit, proceeding or contract shall be
affected by this change of the City to a Charter form of government, but shall
continue as if no change had taken place; and all debts, penalties and
forfeitures which have accrued or may hereafter accrue by virtue of anything
heretofore done or commitment heretofore made shall inure to the City's
benefit, and may be sued for and recovered by the City as though no change had
been made in the City's form of government. Nothing herein shall legalize or
validate any illegal, invalid or unauthorized indebtedness of the City
heretofore contracted or incurred or attempted to be incurred, or impair any
defense of the City against the same. The adoption of this Charter shall in no
way interfere with any proceedings heretofore instituted relative to the levy
and collection of taxes and special assessments and levies of all kinds. All
valid and legal contracts and obligations heretofore entered into by the City
shall remain full force and effect and shall be completed and performed under
ordinances and laws existing prior to and at the time this Charter becomes
effective.
Article III
Section 11.
There is reserved to the City of Waurika power to enact ordinances for the
protection of life, health, safety, peace and property, and to safeguard the
welfare of its inhabitants; to define, declare, prohibit, abate and remove
nuisances; to bring actions in the proper courts to restrain and abate
nuisances; to preserve and enforce good order and good government, and provide
for the general welfare and security of the City and its inhabitants; and to
promote the public health, public peace, public morals, public safety and trade
and commerce, and general welfare of the City's inhabitants.
Section 12.
The Board of City Commissioners is authorized to provide penalties for
violations or ordinances of the City, such penalties to be fines or
imprisonment or both, and may provide for commitment to prison in default of
the payment of any such fine and costs. Any person sentenced to imprisonment
under the laws of the City, or committed to prison for failure to pay a fine
and costs or either, may be compelled to work on the streets, alleys and public
grounds of the City, at such rate as the Board of City Commissioners may
determine, until such fine and costs are paid.
Article IV
Section 13.
The legislative powers and authority of the City of Waurika shall be vested in
a Board of City Commissioners. This Board shall consist of five qualified
electors of said City. At the first election of officers under this Charter,
five City Commissioners shall be elected for terms as provided in
section 78 of this Charter. At each annual City election thereafter, one City
Commissioner shall be elected for a term of three years. Each City Commissioner
shall subscribe the oath of office required by the Constitution of this State.
Section 14.
The Board of City Commissioners shall elect one of its members to be Mayor of
the City, and another member to be Vice-Mayor. The Mayor shall preside at
meetings of the Board, and in his official capacity shall sign all ordinances,
resolutions, orders, minutes and proceedings of the Board, all bonds issued by
the City, and such other documents as the Board may authorize or direct him to
sign. He shall perform all other acts and have all other authority given by the
law of the State to the principal officer of a City except where such authority
and power to act is given by this Charter to the City Manager or to some other
person or officer. He shall be the City's Chief Officer for all ceremonial
purposes. For military purposes the Mayor shall be recognized by the Governor
of the State as the City's Principal Officer. In time of emergency or great
public danger, to be determined by the Board of City Commissioners, the Mayor
may take command of the police and maintain order and take necessary action for
the protection of the public safety. In case of the Mayor's resignation, death,
inability to act, or absence, his duties shall be performed by the Vice-Mayor.
Section 15.
The Board of City Commissioners shall hold regular meetings at least once in
each month, on regular dates to be fixed by resolution, for the transaction of
the City's business, and such special meetings as may be called. Special
meetings of the Board may be called by the Mayor, or by any two members of the
Board, with written notice at least four hours before the time of meeting to be
given all Board members not joining in the call. All meetings of the Board
shall be held in the usual meeting place in the City's building, and shall be
open to the public.
Section 16.
No ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Board shall be effective until
approved by a majority vote of all of the members of the Board. All ordinances
and resolutions shall be read in full before they are considered by the Board
for adoption. Except as may be required by law or this Charter for the
publication of ordinances relating to particular matters, ordinances passed by
the Board need not be published in full, but a publication of the title and a
brief summary of the ordinances shall be sufficient. No ordinance shall become
effective until thirty (30) days after its passage and publication, except
ordinances for appropriation of money to pay current expenses of the City
government; provided, that, if the Commissioners shall enact as a part of an
ordinance that an emergency exists and that the preservation of public peace,
health and safety requires that the ordinance be in effect immediately upon its
passage and publication, it shall be in effect when passed by the Board and
published.
Section 17.
The Board of City Commissioners by ordinance may adopt by reference codes,
ordinances and standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations, milk and milk products, and other matters which it has power to
regulate otherwise. Such a code, ordinance or standard so adopted need not be
enrolled in the Book of Ordinances; but a copy shall be filed and kept in the
Office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall keep copies of every such code,
ordinance or standard in force for distribution or sale at their approximate
cost.
Section 18.
The ordinances of the City shall be codified and published in book or pamphlet
form at least every ten (10) years. Titles, enacting clauses and emergency
sections may be omitted from the Code; and temporary and special ordinances and
parts of ordinances may be omitted. Permanent general ordinances and parts of
ordinances which are to be repealed by the Code, shall be omitted from the
Code. The ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the Code may be
revised, and the Code may contain new matter, provisions of the State
Constitution and law relating to the City and provisions of this Charter. A
copy of the published Code shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk, but
the Code need not be enrolled in the Book of Ordinances.
Section 19.
The vote by yeas and nays shall be taken upon all ordinances and resolutions
considered by the Board of Commissioners, and a record of the way each
Commissioner voted shall be entered upon the minutes of the journal.
Section 20.
If any City Commissioner shall be absent from more than one-half (1/2) of all
the meetings of the Board of City Commissioners, regular and special, held
within any period of four (4) consecutive calendar months, he shall thereupon
automatically forfeit his office.
Section 21.
The Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their service.
Section 22.
The salaries and wages of all employees of the City not otherwise provided for
in this Charter shall be fixed and regulated by the City Manager, subject to
the approval of the Board of City Commissioners and shall be on the basis of
responsibilities and qualifications required of them. No officer or employee of
the City shall receive additional compensation or service or other thing of
value from the City beyond the salary so fixed. Where surety company bonds are
required of officers or employees, the premiums thereon shall be paid for by
the City. The Board of City Commissioners is authorized to establish civil
service rules for all or any class of the City's employees.
Article V
Section 23.
The Board of City Commissioners shall appoint a City Manager, chosen upon the
basis of executive ability, who shall receive a salary to be fixed by the Board
of City Commissioners and paid from the General Fund of the City or any other
fund legally available. The Manager may be removed at any time by a majority
vote of the Board of City Commissioners. During his tenure of office, he shall
reside within the Independent School District #23, Jefferson County, Oklahoma.
Under the direction of the Board of City Commissioners, the City Manager shall
be the administrative head of the Municipal government, and a full time City
Manager shall devote all of his time to the affairs of the City. Before
assuming his office, the City Manager shall subscribe the official oath
required by law and give to the City such surety company bond as the Board of
City Commissioners may require and approve.
Section 24.
That the City Manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the City government. He shall execute the laws and
ordinances of the City and shall administer the government of the city and
shall be responsible therefore to the Board of City Commissioners.
He shall:
   (a)   Appoint and when necessary for the good of the service, subject to any
civil service ordinances that may be enacted, such police officers as may be
necessary.
   (b)   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, suspend,
demote, or remove all heads of administrative departments and other
administrative officers and employees of the City except as he or the City
Commission by ordinance may authorize the head of a department, an officer
agency to appoint and suspend, demote, or remove subordinates in such
department, office, or agency, subject to such merit system regulations as the
City Commission may ordain.
   (c)   Have and exercise all management, control, and supervision over all
departments of the City government and to exercise all administrative functions
pertaining thereto, except as may be otherwise provided in this Charter.
   (d)   Manage, supervise, and control all public works, utilities, and parks
of the City, and the maintenance, repair, and operation thereof, and to manage,
supervise, and control the maintenance, cleaning, lighting, and improving of
the streets, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, and public grounds of the City, both
within and without the limits of the City except as otherwise herein provided.
   (e)   Attend all meetings of the Board of City Commissioners, and to
recommend to them for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or
expedient.
   (f)   Prepare and submit to the Board of City Commissioners an annual
financial budget.
   (g)   Do and perform such other duties as may be required of him by the
Board of City Commissioners.
Section 25.
In case of the absences or disability of the City Manager, or a vacancy in the
Office of City Manager, the Board of City Commissioners shall appoint an acting
City Manager to serve during such temporary absence, disability, or vacancy. In
case of permanent vacancy in such office, the Board of City Commissioners shall
fill the office by appointment within one hundred-twenty (120) days after such
vacancy occurs.
Section 26.
The administrative affairs of the City shall be arranged into a Police
Department, a Health Department, a Fire Department, a Water and Sewer
Department, a Street Department, and such other departments as the Board of
City Commissioners may by ordinance prescribe.
   (a)   The Police Department shall consist of such police officers as may be
employed by the City; and from among them the City Manager may designate one to
be the Chief of Police.
   (b)   The Health Department shall consist of a Health Officer, and any other
employees that may be necessary.
   (c)   The Fire Department shall consist of the organized fire company of the
City, with Department Chief and drivers and other firemen, volunteer or
salaried or both.
   (d)   The Water and Sewer Department shall consist of a Superintendent and
such other employees as may be necessary.
   (e)   Other departments which may be prescribed by the Board of City
Commissioners shall consist of such employees as may be necessary.
   (f)   Any person employed in the service of the City in any department
shall, at the discretion of the City Manager, render services for the City in
any other department when directed to do so by the City Manager.
Section 27.
None of the City Commissioners shall recommend any appointment to be made by
the City Manager, except on the specific request made by the Manager to the
Board of City Commissioners in open session. Any Commissioner violating this
section shall forfeit his office.
Section 28.
Neither the City Manager, the Board of City Commissioners, nor any other
authority of the City government, may appoint or select any person related to
himself, or to the City Manager or any Commissioner, or, in the case of plural
authority, to one of its members, by blood or marriage within the third degree,
to any office or employment in the City government.
Section 29.
Except as may be otherwise provided by this Charter or by ordinance, the same
person may hold more than one office or position in the City government. The
City Manager may hold more than one such office or position, through
appointment by himself or through appointment or election by the Board of City
Commissioners or other City authority having authority to fill the particular
office or position, subject to any regulations which the Board of City
Commissioners may make by ordinance; but he may not receive compensation for
services in such other offices and position.
Section 30.
No City Commissioner may be appointed City Manager during the term for which he
shall have been elected or appointed, or within six (6) years after said City
Commissioner leaves office.
Section 31.
There shall be a City Clerk of the City of Waurika, who shall be appointed by
and hold office at the pleasure of the City Manager. The City Clerk shall have
all the powers and duties prescribed by law and by ordinance, except as may be
otherwise provided in this Charter. He shall collect all revenues, fees and
other moneys due the City and deposit them daily in such banks as may be
designated by the Board of City Commissioners. He shall have custody of and be
responsible for all books, records, maps and other documents and papers
belonging to the City where the custody is not given by law to some other
officer or person. He shall also perform all duties that may be required of him
by ordinances of the City enacted after the adoption of this Charter. Before
entering upon his duties, he shall give to the City such surety company bond as
may be required by the Board of City Commissioners, conditioned that he will
faithfully perform his duties and account for all money and other property of
the City for which he is chargeable.
Section 32.
Immediately after the close of every month's business, the City Clerk shall
prepare and keep on file in his office for inspection by the public a complete
financial operating report, which shall show by classifications the gross
earnings, the operating expenses, and the net profit or the net expense of each
department, and a combined operating report of all departments collectively,
and a balance sheet showing all assets and liabilities of the City. The forms
for such reports and balance sheets, and the items to be contained therein, may
be prescribed by resolution enacted by the Board of City Commissioners. Such
reports and balance sheets shall be made monthly, beginning not later than the
first day of July next following the taking office by the first City
Commissioners under this Charter.
Section 33.
The Board of City Commissioners shall provide for and require an annual audit
by a qualified accountant.
Section 34.
The duties prescribed by law and those usually pertaining to the Office of the
City Treasurer shall be performed by the City Manager, except that the Board of
City Commissioners may by ordinance provide for a different officer to be
appointed by such Board to be City Treasurer and perform the duties of that
office. The Board of City Commissioners may, at its' discretion, directly
appoint an individual to the office of the City Treasurer without first
amending any existing ordinance. The Board of City Commissioners may remove the
City Treasurer from office for the good of the service. The Treasurer shall
keep the funds of the City in depositories designated by the Board of City
Commissioners; and, except sinking funds and except in cases for which a
different provision is made in this Charter, he shall pay out of the funds of
the City only in payment of claims against the City, verified by affidavit,
which have been allowed by the Board of City Commissioners, in a regular or a
special meeting, such allowance to be endorsed upon the claim and signed by the
Mayor. It is not required that warrants be issued to authorize payment of such
allowed claims.
Section 35.
The City Manager, subject to any regulations which the Board of City
Commissioners may prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase
orders for, all supplies, materials and equipment for offices, departments, and
agencies of the city government. The Board of City Commissioners shall by
ordinance, which may be amended from time to time, set the dollar amount of
every such contract or purchase, which may be made by the City Manager, before
requiring the prior approval of the City Commission. In no event may the City
Manager make purchases or contracts as herein provided in excess of the dollar
amount provided for by the then existing ordinance. The City Manager also may
transfer to or between offices, departments, and agencies, or sell, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials, and equipment subject to such regulations as the
Board of City Commissioners may prescribe.
Section 36.
   (a)   The City Manager, subject to any regulations which the council may
prescribe, shall contract for the purchase, or issue purchase authorizations
for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments, and
agencies of the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an
amount to be established by ordinance, shall require the prior approval of the
council. The City manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments,
and agencies, or sell, surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, and equipment,
subject to such regulations as the council may prescribe.
   (b)   Before the purchase of, or contract for, any supplies, materials or
equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or
equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such regulations,
and with such exceptions, as the council may prescribe shall be given; but the
council shall not except a particular contract, purchase, or sale from the
requirement of competitive bidding; and
   (c)   The council by ordinance may transfer some or all the power granted to
the City Manager by this section, relating to purchases and sales, to an
officer appointed by and subordinate to the City Manager.
Section 37.
No contract shall be entered into on behalf of the City to expend any money of
the City until an appropriation has been made for that purpose, nor in any
amount in excess of the unencumbered balance of such appropriation, or from the
proceeds of a bond issue.
Section 38.
Before any City funds are placed in any depository, the Board of City
Commissioners shall require from the depository such security as shall be
sufficient, in the opinion of the Board, to protect the City's deposits;
provided, that, no additional security shall be required if the City's funds in
any given depository do not exceed the amount protected by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation Act.
Section 39.
There shall be a City Attorney who shall be legal advisor to the City
Commissioners and the City Manager, and perform those duties assigned by the
general laws of Oklahoma to City Attorneys. He shall represent the City in all
actions and proceedings in all courts. He shall be appointed by the Board of
City Commissioners, shall hold office at their pleasure, and shall receive such
compensation as they shall determine.
Article VI
Section 40.
No franchise or right to use or occupy any street or other public place in the
City of Waurika shall be granted, extended or renewed except in conformity with
the Constitution of Oklahoma and the ordinances that have been and may
hereafter be enacted by the City; and no public service utility franchise shall
be granted, extended or renewed until it is authorized by a majority of the
electors voting thereon at a general election or at a special election called
for that purpose as provided by law.
Article VII
Section 41.
All laws of the State of Oklahoma pertaining to revenue and fiscal management
of cities, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter, are hereby
made applicable to the City of Waurika.
Section 42.
Sections 9, 10, 26 and 27 of article 10 of the Constitution of Oklahoma, as
amended, and the general laws of Oklahoma vitalizing those sections of the
Constitution are hereby made applicable to the City of Waurika.
Article VIII
Section 43.
There shall be in the City of Waurika a Municipal Court. The City Manager shall
appoint a Municipal Judge, who shall preside over the Municipal Court, and who
shall hold office at the pleasure of the City Manager. Such Municipal Court and
the Judge thereof shall be vested with all power and authority conferred on
police courts and Municipal courts and the Judges thereof by the laws of
Oklahoma and the Charter and ordinances of the City of Waurika.
Section 44.
Such Municipal Court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all criminal
proceedings for violations of the ordinances of the City and shall also have
all power and jurisdiction now conferred on police courts and Municipal courts
by the Constitution and general laws of Oklahoma.
Section 45.
There shall be no trial by jury in said Municipal Court, and no change of venue
therefrom. From any judgment in any criminal proceeding in said Municipal
Court, the defendant shall have an absolute right of appeal to the County Court
of Jefferson County, Oklahoma, in the manner now provided by the general laws
of the State for appeals from Municipal courts and police courts.
Section 46.
The Judge of said Municipal Court is authorized to administer oaths. The said
court is empowered to punish for contempt, enforce its judgments, mandates and
orders, punish by fine and imprisonment the violations of the ordinances of the
City, and to reprimand, parole and remit the punishment of defendants; and it
may provide for separate detention of juvenile offenders, and may exercise
jurisdiction to try juvenile offenders and punish them in cases where exclusive
jurisdiction therefore is not conferred by law upon some other court.
Section 47.
All fines, penalties and forfeitures collected by the Municipal Court or the
Judge thereof shall be the property of the City of Waurika, and shall be paid
over to the City Clerk periodically as the Board of City Commissioners may
provide; except that, until otherwise provided by City ordinance, the Judge of
the Municipal Court shall retain from the costs collected by him in each
criminal case the police Judge fee which is provided by Ordinance no. 26 of the
City of Waurika, approved February 11, 1913.
Article IX
Section 48.
The election of all officers under this Charter shall be nonpartisan.
Section 49.
The election of all City Commissioners shall be at large, and not from wards or
other subdivisions of the City.
Section 50.
Electors shall possess the same qualification as are required by the general
laws of Oklahoma.
Section 51.
   (a)   A general election shall be held in the City of Waurika for among
other things, the election of a City Commissioner or City Commissioners, on the
first Tuesday in April. The general election shall be held on the first Tuesday
in April in accordance with the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
   (b)   The provisions of the State Constitution and laws of the State of
Oklahoma relating to elections shall govern every election of whatever kind of
this City insofar as they are applicable and are not superseded by the Amended
Charter or by ordinance.
   (c)   All city elections shall be conducted on a non-partisan basis.
   (d)   All citizens legally registered under the constitution and laws of the
State of Oklahoma to vote in the City shall be registered voters of the City
within the meaning of this Charter.
   (e)   The filing period for Regular Municipal Elections shall begin at 8:00
a.m. on the first Monday in February and end at 5:00 p.m. on the following
Wednesday.
   (f)   Candidates for municipal offices shall file Declarations of Candidacy
with the Secretary of the County Election Board.
   (g)   Any candidate may withdraw his candidacy only by filing a written
notice of withdrawal with the Secretary of the County Election Board no later
than 5:00 p.m. on Friday following the close of the filing period.
   (h)   The County Election Board shall certify results of any municipal
elections to the governing board of the municipality for which the election was
held. Certificates of Election shall be issued to the successful candidates by
the County Election Board in the same manner as is prescribed for County
Officers.
   (i)   Absentee voting is authorized for any elections conducted by a County
Election Board and absentee ballots must be provided. Absentee voting is
required in cities with home rule charters. Any registered voter may apply for
an absentee ballot for any election in which he is eligible to vote.
Section 52.
Deleted by vote on April 14, 1998.
Section 53.
Deleted by vote on April 14, 1998.
Section 54.
Female electors as provided by the Constitution of Oklahoma, shall be eligible
to vote in all City elections, and to hold any office, elective or appointive,
created by this Charter. (5-1-1951)
Section 55.
A vacancy in office shall exist when any elective officer fails to qualify and
assume his office within twenty (20) days after the time provided for him to
assume his office, and when an officer or officer-elect dies, removes from the
City, if convicted of a felony, or becomes otherwise legally disqualified to
hold the office. Vacancies in elective offices shall be filled by appointment
by the Board of City Commissioners until the next City general election, at
which time an officer shall be elected for any remaining portion of the
unexpired term.
Section 56.
The Board of City Commissioners is given power to pass all ordinances that may
be deemed necessary to fully vitalize all provisions of this Charter pertaining
to elections.
Section 57.
Article XVIII of the Constitution of Oklahoma is adopted, ratified, and made to
be in full force and effect for the government of the City of Waurika.
Article X
Section 58.
The Board of City Commissioners may provide by ordinance for a Library Board to
have control and management of any library owned by the City and may provide
financial support for such library from City funds.
Section 59.
The Board of City Commissioners may provide by ordinance for a Cemetery Board
to have control and management of any cemetery owned by the City.
Section 60.
All parks and recreational grounds and facilities owned by the City or under
its control, within and without the City, shall be under the management and
control of the City Manager, subject to such limitations as the Board of City
Commissioners may establish.
Article XI
Section 61.
The City of Waurika shall have the power to construct or cause to be
constructed special improvements, including street curbing, guttering, grading,
surface drainage, drainage by storm sewers, storm sewer drainage constructed
separately from paving, paving, and otherwise surfacing of streets, alleys and
other public places and ways, sanitary sewer systems, and street lighting.
Proceedings for the installation of any such improvements and proceedings to
provide for the payment of the same shall be governed by the general laws of
Oklahoma pertaining to cities.
Article XII
Section 62.
The Board of City Commissioners shall require good and sufficient corporate
surety bonds from all contractors.
Section 63.
All contracts pertaining to public improvements, and maintenance of public
property, involving an expenditure of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or more,
shall be based upon specifications which have been submitted to and approved by
the Board of City Commissioners. Upon approval of such specifications the Board
shall advertise for bids, either sealed bids or open competitive oral bids as
the Board may elect, for the proposed work or matter embraced in the
specifications, such advertisement to be published in a newspaper having
general circulation in the City. If the advertisement calls for sealed bids,
they shall be filed with the City Clerk. The Board shall receive the bids,
either sealed or oral open bids as the case may be, in open session, and
tabulate the same; and may thereafter award the contract to the lowest
responsible bidder who, in the judgment of the Board, can and will fully
perform such contract in a manner satisfactory to the City.
Section 64.
No officer or employee of the City shall give or promise any valuable thing to
any person in consideration of being appointed or selected to any office or
place of employment with the City; and any person violating the provision of
this section shall thereafter forever be disqualified from holding any office
or employment with the City.
Section 65.
No officer of the City shall accept any donation of gratuity of any kind,
directly or indirectly, from any subordinate or employee or from any applicant
for any position of employment with the City; and any person violating the
provisions of this section shall thereafter forever be disqualified from
holding any office or employment with the City.
Section 66.
No officer or employee of the City (except members of the Fire Department not
employed full time by the City) shall be directly or indirectly in the employ
of any person, company or corporation holding or seeking to hold any franchise
from the City, or shall receive directly or indirectly any wages, commissions,
gifts or other things of value from any such person, company or corporation;
and any person violating the provisions of this section shall thereafter
forever be disqualified from holding any office or employment with the City.
Section 67.
Neither the City Manager nor any member of the Board of City Commissioners nor
any other officer of said City, elective or appointive, shall be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any work, business or contract which is
to be paid for with money of the City or by any assessment levied by ordinance
or resolution of the Board of City Commissioners. Any contract that is
violative of this section is declared to be illegal and void.
Section 68.
Every officer of the City, elective or appointive, who shall approve, allow, or
pay any claim or demand on the City Treasury which is not authorized by law or
which is forbidden by law, shall be liable to the City individually and on his
official bond for the amount so illegally approved, allowed or paid.
Section 69.
All writs and other process issued out of the Municipal Court shall run in the
name of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, and shall be signed by the Judge; and
they may be served by any police officer of the City or by any other person
designated by the Judge of the Court by written endorsement upon the writ.
Section 70.
The City shall have and exercise general power and control over its streets,
alleys and other public places, and its public property, and may by ordinance
or otherwise prescribe rules for the use, preservation, and protection thereof.
Section 71.
The Board of City Commissioners shall cause to be prepared and published an
annual financial statement showing all receipts and expenditures by departments
of the City government.
Section 72.
The enumeration of powers reserved to this Charter by the City of Waurika shall
not be held or construed to limit the general powers of the City or to exclude
any powers not herein enumerated; for it is intended by the adoption of this
Charter to reserve to and confer upon the City and its inhabitants full and
unrestricted rights, powers, and privileges of local self- government, limited
only by the applicable parts of the Constitution of Oklahoma.
Article XIII
Section 73.
The rates charged by the City for utility services furnished by the City, shall
be fixed by the Board of City Commissioners by resolution, and may be changed
by such Board from time to time.
Section 74.
Beginning not later than July 1, 1953, a minimum of six percent (6%) of the
gross receipts of the City from the sale of water and water service shall be
placed each month in the sinking fund depository of the City and credited to
the City's fund which is reserved for the payment of the City's bonded
indebtedness and the interest thereon, and this shall continue at all times
when there shall be any unpaid water bonds of the City outstanding, either
bonds of past or future issues. At such times as there shall be no unpaid water
bonds of the City outstanding, the said six percent (6%) of the water receipts
shall be placed in a special fund of the City to be used for such machinery
replacement and distribution system extensions in the Water Department as the
Board of City Commissioners may deem necessary, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
Article XIV
Section 75.
The Mayor, the City Manager and the City Clerk, and such other officers as the
Board of City Commissioners may by ordinance designate, are authorized to
administer oaths.
Section 76.
This Charter may be amended by proposal submitted by the Board of City
Commissioners or by proposal initiated by petition, in either event subject to
ratification by a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at an
election, and approval by the Governor of Oklahoma, all as provided by the laws
of Oklahoma pertaining to cities.
Article XV
Section 77.
The provisions of this Charter relating to the election of the Board of City
Commissioners shall take effect for that purpose immediately upon its adoption
by the electors of the City and its approval by the Governor of the State. The
entire Charter shall become effective, and the government provided by it shall
be inaugurated, at the time prescribed below for the first meeting of the Board
of City Commissioners.
Section 78.
Within ten (10) days after the approval of this Charter by the Governor, the
Mayor of the City of Waurika shall issue a proclamation calling an election in
said City on a date to be fixed by the proclamation not less than twenty (20)
nor more than thirty (30) days from its date; and notice of such election shall
be given by publication of the election proclamation in at least two (2) issues
of a weekly newspaper published in said City. The manner of candidates filing
for such election, and the manner of conducting such election shall all be
governed by the appropriate provisions of this Charter. At such election there
shall be elected three (3) City Commissioners for terms ending on the first
Monday in May in the years 1952, 1953, 1954, respectively, or when their
successors are lawfully elected and qualified. They shall hold their first
meeting and be inducted into office at noon on the first Monday following their
election. (5-1-1951)
CERTIFICATE
   We, the undersigned, duly elected freeholders of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, having elected L.G. Morgan Chairman, Frank Moran Vice-Chairman, and
Loyd Coffman Secretary, of the Board of Freeholders, do hereby approve and
propose this Charter of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, as it appears
hereinbefore, and return it to the acting Mayor of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, for submission to the electors of the City at an election to be
called in accordance with the law.
   In testimony whereof, we hereunto set our hands at Waurika, Oklahoma, this
the 12th day of March, 1951.
From Ward One:
/s/ J.M. Lewis
/s/Loyd Coffman
From Ward Two:
/s/ W.S. Dawson
/s/ R.O. Penny
From Ward Three:
/s/ L.H. Stowe
/s/ L.G. Morgan
From Ward Four:
/s/ Bill Martin
/s/ Frank Moran
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 12th day of March, 1951. My commission
expires March 5, 1955.
   /s/ Jas. Ward
   Notary Public
My commission expires:
March 5, 1955
 
CERTIFICATE
Returned to the acting Mayor of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, this 12th day of
March, 1951.
(SEAL)   /s/ W.C. Burger
   Acting Mayor
   /s/ Josephine Denney
   City Clerk
 
CERTIFICATE
   I, W.C. BURGER, Mayor of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, hereby certify that
the Mayor of the City submitted the Charter of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma,
as it appears hereinbefore, to the electors of the City at an election on April
27, 1951, and that the electors of the City ratified the said Charter at said
election by the following vote:
   For the Charter, 192
   Against the Charter, 37
   In Testimony Whereof, I hereunto set my hand this 30th day of April, 1951.
   /s/ W.C. Burger
   Mayor
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
/s/ Josephine Denney
City Clerk
 
CERTIFICATE
   Whereas, a duly constituted Board of Freeholders of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, prepared and returned the Charter of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma,
as it appears hereinbefore;
   Whereas, the electors of the City of Waurika, at an election held on April
27, 1951, duly ratified said Charter; and
   Whereas, I have examined said Charter and find that it is not in conflict
with the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma;
   Therefore, I, Johnston Murray, Governor of the State of Oklahoma, do hereby
approve the said Charter of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, as it appears
hereinbefore.
   In Testimony Whereof, I hereunto set my hand as Governor of the State of
Oklahoma and direct the Secretary of State to attest this certificate and affix
to it the Great Seal of the State of Oklahoma, this the 1st day of May, 1951.
   /s/ Johnston Murray
   Governor of the State of Oklahoma
ATTEST:
/s/ John D. Conner
Secretary of State
 
OFFICIAL CERTIFICATE OF VOTES
   General Election April 14, 1998
   For Amendments to the City Charter
   City of Waurika, Jefferson County, Oklahoma
I do hereby certify the official counters for the general election held by the
City of Waurika, April 14, 1998 did certify the count and I do hereby certify
the attached to be a true and accurate result of the election.
                                       /s/ Dana Eck
                                       Mayor
(SEAL)
/s/ Phyllis Moffatt
   City Clerk
 
APPROVAL BY GOVERNOR OF AMENDED MUNICIPAL CHARTER
   I, Frank Keating, Governor of the State of Oklahoma, pursuant to the powers
vested in me by Article 18 of the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma and the
provisions of Section 13-111 of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes proclaim the
following:
1.   On February 16, 1998, The City Council of the City of Waurika, Jefferson
County, State of Oklahoma, by resolution directed a proposition to be included
on the ballot of the Special Election conducted for the purpose of submitting
to the qualified thereof, amendments to the Waurika Charter.
2.   The amendments to Section 24, 25, 30, 34, 35, and 36 of Article 5 and
Section 51, 52, and 53 of Article 10 of the Charter of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, submitted to the vote on April 14, 1998, have been duly adopted
pursuant to the laws of Oklahoma.
3.   The Certificate of Authentication of the election certifies that said
propositions were approved by a majority of those electors voting in the
election and that the Amendments to the Charter were approved as required by
Section 13-111 of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
THEREFORE, I find that the amendments are not in conflict with the Constitution
or laws of the State of Oklahoma and hereby approve the adopted amendments to
be in full force and effect as provided by law.
A copy of this executive order shall be forwarded to the Mayor of the City of
Waurika.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Great Seal of
the State of Oklahoma to be affixed at Oklahoma City, this 8th day of December
1998.
                  BY THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA
                   /s/ Frank Keating
ATTEST:
/s/ Tom Cole
TOM COLE
SECRETARY OF STATE
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WAURIKA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title; Authority
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Jurisdiction Outside Corporate Limits
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
Upon the adoption by the Board of City Commissioners, this Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of
Waurika. This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WAURIKA CITY
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the City Commission and 11
Oklahoma Statutes sections 14-108 and 14-109, and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2019 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2019 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   All provisions of this Code, and other ordinances of the City now in
effect or adopted in the future, are hereby extended to all real property
belonging to, or under the control of, the City outside the corporate limits of
the City, and shall be in full force and effect thereon insofar as they are
applicable.
   B.   Any words in any such provision indicating that its effect is limited
to the corporate limits of the City shall be deemed to mean and include also
such outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the City,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   C.   The operation of motor vehicles and other traffic upon roads, streets
and highways that form the corporate boundary line of the City shall be subject
to all Municipal Traffic Ordinances and other ordinances of the City. (2007
Code § 8-13)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the City to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the limits set out in section
1-10-21 of this title. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Enumeration Of State Law Or Local Provisions
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: (2019 Code)
   A.   Ordinances promising, obligating or guaranteeing the payment of money
for or to the City authorizing the issuance of any Municipal bonds or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness.
   B.   Appropriation Ordinances, or ordinances providing for: 1) the levy of
taxes; 2) an annual budget; 3) a special election; or 4) prescribing salaries
for City officers and employees.
   C.   Ordinances which provide for the annexation or de- annexation of
territory to or from the City.
   D.   Ordinances approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to, any
contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument, or granting any
franchise.
   E.   Ordinances authorizing or relating to specific public improvements.
   F.   Ordinances vacating, opening or dedicating specific streets and alleys.
   G.   Ordinances relating to specific street improvements and assessments.
   H.   Ordinances relating to the grade or alignment of specific streets.
   I.   Ordinances naming or renaming specific streets.
   J.   Ordinances granting railroads or others the right to use specific
streets, alleys or rights-of-way.
   K.   Ordinances changing the zoning district classification of a specific
parcel of real property.
   L.   Other temporary or special ordinances. (2007 Code § 8-10)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall
affect any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the
effective date of this Code. (2007 Code § 8-12)
      2.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
      3.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2019 Code)
1-2-3: ENUMERATION OF STATE LAW OR LOCAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   State Law:
      1.   Provisions of State law which affect the City, because of its
general relationship to the State, may not be enumerated herein, but may be
adopted by reference as inseparable parts of this Code.
      2.   Provisions of State law which prescribe specific actions or laws for
the City and its citizens may be included in this Code for purposes of clarity.
      3.   Provisions of State law in matters of wider public concern which are
not enumerated herein, but which affect the City and its citizens in a general
way, may not be enumerated herein, but may nevertheless be made a part of this
Code through adoption by reference.
   B.   Local Provisions: All provisions which are of purely local concern may
be specifically enumerated in this Code. The regulations, rules, prohibitions,
nuisances, offenses and other provisions which are of purely local concern, as
provided by State law, and are specifically enumerated herein in detail, shall
be enforced by the City; duly authorized officers and agents of the City shall
have all powers, duties and responsibilities necessary to enforce the same.
(2007 Code § 8-11)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Commission that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, or any
codes or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code or any code adopted
herein, or of any ordinance in this Code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this Code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. (2007 Code § 8-
16; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Further, if any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of
this Code shall seem invalid through printing or typographical error, such
error or misprint shall not serve to misconstrue or invalidate the intent
thereof, nor affect in any way the intent or validity of any or all other
words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code. (2007
Code § 8-16)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Commission may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   F.   Law: Includes applicable Federal law, provisions of the Constitution
and Statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the City, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Or/And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   I.   Preceding, Following: The next before and next after, respectively.
   J.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   K.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   L.   Officers, Employees, Agencies Generally: Whenever any officer,
employee, agency or department is referred to by title only, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the City of Waurika".
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Statutory References: Reference to the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   O.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The City of Waurika, County of Jefferson, State of Oklahoma. The word
"City" shall be construed as if the words "of Waurika, Oklahoma", followed.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Waurika.
COMMISSION, CITY COMMISSION, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The Board of Commissioners
of Waurika.
COUNTY: The County of Jefferson, Oklahoma.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
PERSON: Shall extend, and be applied to, associations, corporations, firms,
partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word "person", applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners and members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
STATE OR THE STATE: The State of Oklahoma. (2019 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty; Judicial Review
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY; JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Whenever, in this Code or any ordinance of the City, an act is
prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or misdemeanor, or
wherever in this Code the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or of any such
ordinance shall be punishable by a fine in any amount not exceeding the limits
established in section
1-10-21 of this title. Each day on which any violation of this Code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   B.   No penalty imposed by, and pursuant to, this Code shall interfere with
the right of the City also to apply to the proper courts of the State for a
mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation. (2007 Code § 8-50)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2019 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Municipal Wards; Annexations
1-5-2: Corporate Boundaries Map
1-5-3: Zoning District Boundaries Map
1-5-1: MUNICIPAL WARDS; ANNEXATIONS:
   A.   When new territory is annexed to the City, it shall become a part of
the ward or wards to which it is adjacent. The streets, boulevards and avenues
named shall be extended north, south, east and west, as the case may be, as
ward boundaries, as new territory is annexed at the points where said streets,
boulevards and avenues touch the City limits, so that the extensions of said
streets, boulevards and avenues shall become a part of the ward boundaries of
territory annexed adjacent thereto.
   B.   References to streets, boulevards and avenues shall mean the
centerlines thereof. (2007 Code § 20-1)
1-5-2: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES MAP:
   A.   A map depicting the current corporate boundaries of the City shall be
maintained and displayed in the Office of the City Clerk.
   B.   This map shall reflect all current Annexation and De-Annexation
Ordinances and orders, all plat and/or street vacation orders, and all official
street names and shall represent the official map of the corporate boundaries
of the City.
   C.   This map may be combined with the official Zoning Districts Map as
provided for in section
1-5-3 of this chapter. All dedicated streets and alleys shall be shown on this
map; vacated streets and alleys shall not be shown on said map, but shall be
redrawn by the methods provided by Oklahoma Statutes.
   D.   This map shall be available for public inspection. (2007 Code § 20-10)
1-5-3: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES MAP:
   A.   A map showing the boundaries of all current zoning districts within the
entire corporate boundaries of the City shall be maintained in the Office of
the City Clerk, if a Zoning Ordinance is in effect within the City.
   B.   This map shall reflect all current Zoning Ordinance provisions and all
current ordinances rezoning land, and shall represent the official Zoning
Districts Map for the City.
   C.   This map may be combined with the official map of the corporate limits
of the City as provided for in section
1-5-1 of this chapter.
   D.   This map shall be available for public inspection. (2007 Code § 20-20)
CHAPTER 6
INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Incorporation
1-6-2: Form Of Government
1-6-3: General Powers Of City
1-6-4: Succession In Government
1-6-1: INCORPORATION:
The City, within the corporate limits as now established or as hereafter may be
established, shall continue to be a Municipal body politic and corporate in
perpetuity under the name of the "City of Waurika, Oklahoma". It shall succeed
to and possess all the property, rights, privileges, franchises, powers and
immunities now belonging to the corporation known as the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, and shall be liable for all debts and other obligations for which the
corporation is now legally bound. (2007 Code § 1-1)
1-6-2: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The Municipal government provided for the City shall be the "Board of City
Commissioners - City Manager" form of government, as outlined in the Waurika
City Charter. All powers of the City shall be exercised in the manner
prescribed by the City Charter, this Code, future ordinances or State law;
provided, that, this Code and all future ordinances are not repugnant to the
State Constitution and laws. (2007 Code § 1-2)
1-6-3: GENERAL POWERS OF CITY:
   A.   The City shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises and immunities specifically granted to municipalities, or not
prohibited by the State Constitution and laws, and all the implied power
necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   B.   The City shall have the power to adopt a Corporate Seal and alter the
same, to sue and be sued, to make contracts and to grant, extend and renew
franchises. It shall have the power, in accordance with the State Constitution
and laws, to accept and administer Federal and State grants in aid. It shall
have the power to ordain and enforce local legislation, consistent with the
State Constitution and laws, for the proper organization and functioning of
Municipal government, for the preservation and enforcement of good government
and order, for the protection of health, life, peace, safety, morals and
property, for the prevention, summary abatement and removal of nuisances, and
otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare.
   C.   The enumeration of particular powers of this Code shall not be deemed
to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, the City shall have all the powers which, under the State
Constitution and laws, it would be competent for this Code specifically to
enumerate. (2007 Code § 1-3)
1-6-4: SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT:
   A.   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this Code,
shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their
limitations.
   B.   All officers and employees of the City, under any and all previous
ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments which they
respectively hold, after this Code goes into effect.
   C.   All books, monies or other property belonging to the City, and in
charge or possession of any officer of the City shall be delivered to said
person's successor. (2007 Code § 1-222)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR AND BOARD OF CITY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Powers Of Commissioners; Filing Fee For Candidates
1-7-2: Municipal Policy And Business
1-7-3: City Commission Meetings
1-7-4: Removal Of Commissioners; Vacancies
1-7-5: Mayor And Vice Mayor
1-7-6: Ordinances
1-7-1: POWERS OF COMMISSIONERS; FILING FEE FOR CANDIDATES:
   A.   Powers And Authority:
      1.   The legislative powers and authority of the City shall be vested in
a Board of City Commissioners (see
section 13 et seq. of the City Charter).
      2.   Powers of the Board of City Commissioners shall be as established by
the City Charter and this Code; provided, that any provisions in this Code
shall not conflict with the City Charter.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided in the City Charter and this Code, all
powers of the City, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be
vested in the City Commission; said City Commission shall have, and may
utilize, all of the powers granted to the City and said City Commission by the
State Constitution and laws. (2007 Code § 1-11)
   B.   Filing Fee For Candidates: Candidates for the Office of Board of City
Commissioners shall pay a filing fee in the amount of three hundred dollars
($300.00) to the County Election Board when filing for office. The amount of
the filing fee may be increased or decreased by a resolution of the Board of
City Commissioners. (Ord. 04082019-02, 4-8-2019; amd. Ord. 11122019-05, 11-12-
2019)
1-7-2: MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS:
   A.   General Policy Concerning Business And Administration: The City
Commission shall conduct all business of the City, set policy for the efficient
administration of City government, administratively supervise all activities or
City employees, and carry out their responsibilities, powers and duties as
officers and as a corporate and politic body, within the limits prescribed by
the State Constitution and laws and the City Charter and this Code.
   B.   Nondiscrimination: It shall be the policy of the City government that
no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, creed, color,
sex, religion, handicap, national origin, age, genetic information, gender
identity or disability, unless the City can demonstrate that accommodation for
the disability would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business
of the City, in employment or other activities sponsored directly or indirectly
by the City.
   C.   Voting Upon Question; Noninterest: Every member of the City Commission
who shall be present when the opportunity or need arises to vote upon a
question, shall vote thereon, unless said member is directly or indirectly
interested in the question, in which event said interest shall be fully
disclosed to the City Commission and it shall be made a matter of record. (Ord.
11032017-1, 11-6-2017)
1-7-3: CITY COMMISSION MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Municipal business shall be conducted at regularly-
scheduled open and public meetings held in the City Hall (or another agreed
upon place which is open to the public) at least once in each month, on dates
and times as determined by the Board of City Commissioners and fixed by
resolution. Notice of said determination shall be given as required by the
Oklahoma Open Meeting Act, 25 0klahoma Statutes section 301 et seq., as
amended.
   B.   Special Meetings: A special City Commission meeting may be called by
the Mayor, or by any two (2) of the City Commissioners, upon the serving of
public notice of the date, time, and place of the meeting as required by
current State law.
   C.   Emergency Meetings: An emergency meeting may be called by the Mayor, or
by a majority of the City Commissioners. Emergency meetings of the City
Commission may be held without the public notice heretofore required. Should an
emergency meeting be necessary, the person or persons calling such a meeting
shall give as much advance public notice as is reasonable and possible under
the circumstances existing in person or by telephonic or electronic means.
   D.   Meeting Agendas: All items placed on a monthly City Commission meeting
agenda, a special City Commission meeting agenda, or an emergency City
Commission meeting agenda must be done in writing on an agenda form on file in
City Hall. Said agenda form shall be signed and dated with supporting
documentation attached, if any. The agenda item may be placed on said agenda by
the City Manager, any City Commissioner, or the City Attorney if presented to
the City Clerk no later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon the Wednesday prior to
the meeting with the exception of a special or emergency meeting when said item
or items will be submitted at the time of the calling and scheduling the
special or emergency meeting. Any other person may be allowed to submit an
agenda item and form, provided it is also signed and approved by the City
Manager, any City Commissioner, or the City Attorney. No person may remove or
deny an item from being placed on the agenda except for tle person having
submitted the item for the agenda, or the City Attorney if he or she deems it
is in violation of City, State, or Federal law, who will also advise that
person if it is removed and why. The exception to submission of a signed agenda
form is for recurring items such as the Treasurer's report, purchase order
printouts, or other financial reports, the City Clerk's report, the Manager's
report, the police report, items which have been tabled to be put on the next
month's agenda, and approval of minutes of a previous meeting.
   E.   Order of Business: The City Commission shall establish, by motion or
resolution, an order of business for the conduct of its meetings.
   F.   All Boards and Meetings of the City of Waurika shall follow
parliamentary procedure known as Robert's Rules of Order, newly revised, and as
may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 010818-01, 1-22-2018; amd. Ord.
2142022-04, 2-14-2022)
1-7-4: REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONERS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Removal Authorized: Any Commissioner, including the Mayor, may be
removed from office for any cause specified by, and using the methods
prescribed and specified by, applicable State law for the removal of officers,
including 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1181 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Absent From Meetings: Whenever a member of the City Commission is
absent from more than one-half (1/2) of all regular and special meetings of
said City Commission held within any period of four (4) consecutive months,
said person shall thereupon automatically cease to hold office.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies in the membership of the City Commission
shall be filled according to article IX of the City Charter. (2007 Code § 1-14)
1-7-5: MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR:
   A.   Election From Commission Members: The Board of City Commissioners shall
elect one of its members as Mayor and one as Vice Mayor. The Mayor shall be
elected annually.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: When a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, the
Board of City Commissioners shall elect another Mayor from among its members to
serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
   C.   Preside At Meetings: The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
Board of City Commissioners and may call special meetings thereof.
   D.   Duties:
      1.   The Mayor shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances
and resolutions passed by the Board of City Commissioners. The Mayor shall have
all the powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of a City
Commissioner, and, as an elected representative of the citizens, may vote on
all matters that come before the Board of City Commissioners.
      2.   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by State law,
City Charter or ordinance.
   E.   Head Of Government For Ceremonial Purposes: The Mayor shall be
recognized as the head of the Municipal government for all ceremonial purposes.
   F.   Vice Mayor Serve In Absence Of Mayor: During the absence, disability or
suspension of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall assume the Mayor's duties. (2007
Code § 1-20)
1-7-6: ORDINANCES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the City Commission
shall be: "BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma", and of all ordinances proposed by the voters under their power of
initiative, "BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma".
      2.   Every proposed ordinance shall be read and a vote of a majority of
all the Commission shall be required for its final passage.
      3.   The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
      4.   Every ordinance, except those exempted by State law, shall be
published by title or in full, within fifteen (15) days after its passage, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City or County, or posted in ten
(10) public places within the City.
      5.   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall become
effective thirty (30) days after its final passage, unless it specifies a later
date.
      6.   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which, in the judgment of the
City Commission, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the local
welfare, peace, health or safety, and which should become effective prior to
the time when a regular ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance
shall contain, as a part of its title, the words "and declaring an emergency"
and, in a separate section (herein called the emergency section), shall declare
the emergency. The City Commission shall vote on the emergency section
separately and must adopt said emergency section by a vote of at least three-
fourths (3/4) of all the members of said City Commission. An emergency
ordinance shall take effect upon passage, unless it specifies a later date.
(2007 Code § 1-224)
   B.   Adoption By Reference: The City Commission, by ordinance, may adopt by
reference codes, ordinances and standards relating to building, plumbing,
electrical installations and other matters which it has the power to regulate.
Such a code, ordinance or standard so adopted need not be enrolled in this
Code; provided, that one copy is filed and kept in the Office of the City
Clerk. (2007 Code § 1-225; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Compilation:
      1.   Every ten (10) years, the City shall compile and publish its
effective penal ordinances in a permanent form. (2007 Code § 1-226)
      2.   One copy of the compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the
City in the Jefferson County Law Library; and three (3) copies of this Code
shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk. (2007 Code § 1-226; amd.
2019 Code)
      3.   Every two (2) years the City shall prepare, adopt and publish
supplements to its compiled penal ordinances, and no ordinance shall be
enforced if it is not reflected in such compilation or supplement, if such
ordinance was adopted more than one year prior to the latest compilation or
supplement.
      4.   When the City has compiled and published this Code and succeeding
supplements, the City Commission shall adopt a resolution notifying the public
of such compliance and cause certified copies of the resolution, this Code and
the supplements to be filed in the Office of the Jefferson County Clerk and the
County Law Library. (2007 Code § 1-226)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Bonds Of Officers
1-8-2: Nepotism; Compatibility Of Offices
1-8-3: Change Of Salaries
1-8-4: Employee Retirement System; Deferred Compensation Plan
1-8-1: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   The City Clerk, City Treasurer, City Manager and the City's Purchasing
Agent(s) shall each be bonded by the City within ten (10) days after their
election or appointment, in the amount of sixty five thousand dollars
($65,000.00) each.
   B.   The City Commission shall, by motion, establish bond requirements for
other City officers and employees, as necessary or as required. (2007 Code § 1-
220)
1-8-2: NEPOTISM; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES:
   A.   No member of the City Commission nor any other authority of the City
government, may appoint, or vote for the appointment of, any person related to
said person by affinity or consanguinity within the third degree, to any office
or position of profit in the City government.
   B.   The following relatives shall be considered as within the third degree
of affinity or consanguinity: sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great
grandsons, great granddaughters, brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces, aunts,
uncles, primary cousins, grandfathers, grandmothers, grand uncles, grand aunts,
great grandfathers, great grandmothers, son-in-law, great granddaughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, nephew-in-law, niece-in-law, aunt-in-law, uncle-
in-law, primary cousins-in-law, grandfather-in-law, grandmother-in-law, grand
uncle-in-law, grand aunt-in-law, great grandfather-in-law, great grandmother-
in-law, grand nephew, grand niece, grand nephew-in-law, grand niece-in-law,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepfather or stepmother; a divorce decree shall be
deemed to dissolve all relationships arising by that marriage.
   C.   Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, the same person may
hold more than one office or position in the City government. (2007 Code § 1-
223)
1-8-3: CHANGE OF SALARIES:
The basic salaries of elected City officials shall not be changed after their
election or during their term of office (State Constitution article XXIII,
section 10). (2007 Code § 1-221)
1-8-4: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM; DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN:
   A.   Employee Retirement System Created: Pursuant to the authority conferred
by the City, City Charter, as amended, and by the laws of the State of
Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service
on the part of City employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is
hereby authorized, created, established, approved and adopted, effective as of
August 1, 1977, the funded Pension Plan designated the "Employee Retirement
System of Waurika, Oklahoma" (hereinafter called "system"). (2007 Code § 1-160)
   B.   Administration: For the purpose of administration of the system, there
is hereby established a Board of Trustees, which shall be the members of the
Waurika City Commission, as now existing or as from time to time duly elected
or appointed and constituted. The powers and duties of the Board of Trustees
shall be as set forth in the system instrument. (2007 Code § 1-161)
   C.   Fund: A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid over to, and received in trust for such purpose by, the City
Treasurer who shall be the Treasurer of the system. Such fund shall be pooled
for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of other
incorporated cities, towns and Municipal trusts in the State of Oklahoma as a
part of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, in accordance with a duly
executed contract for such purpose, which contract shall be executed by the
City Commission, as soon as feasible. The City Treasurer shall hold such
contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over and transfer
the same to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, as duly authorized and
directed by the Board of Trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be
considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is made to the County
Excise Board. The fund and system shall be valued every other year for
actuarial soundness by a qualified actuarial firm. (2007 Code § 1-162)
   D.   Appropriations: The City is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation and administration of the system, and
to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the City is hereby authorized to
appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee
contributions, to maintain the system and the fund on a sound actuarial basis,
in accordance with the respective annual actuarial valuation. Any appropriation
so made to maintain the system and fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries
and for the payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration,
including separate annual appropriations to be transferred to the trustees of
the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund for such purposes, and shall be paid
into the fund when available, through the City Treasurer, to be by him duly
transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund. (2007 Code § 1-163)
   E.   Execution: The Mayor and City Clerk be and they are each hereby
authorized and directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall
constitute an original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and
things necessary, advisable and proper to put said system and related trust
into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of the United States. The City Commission is hereby authorized and
directed to proceed immediately on behalf of the City to negotiate a contract
with other incorporated cities and towns of the State of Oklahoma to pool and
combine the fund into the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund as a part thereof,
with similar funds of such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled
management, and investment. The City Commission shall manifest approval of such
contract and the execution thereof by the Mayor and City Clerk, by a formal
resolution. (2007 Code § 1-164)
   F.   Separability: If, regardless of cause, any section, subsection,
paragraph, sentence or clause of this section, including the system as set
forth in exhibit A on file in the City, is held invalid or to be
unconstitutional, the remaining sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences or
clauses shall continue in full force and effect and shall be construed
thereafter as being the entire provisions of this section. (2007 Code § 1-165)
   G.   Employee Defined Benefit Plan: The plan created by ordinance of the
City is hereby amended by Ordinance 050602-1, including Joinder Agreement
attached as exhibit A, and Ordinance 12092019-07, including Joinder Agreement
attached as exhibit A and the amended and restated plan attached as Exhibit B,
on file in the City continued. (2007 Code § 1-166) (amd. Ord. 12092019-07, 12-
9-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-9-1: City Clerk
1-9-2: City Treasurer
1-9-3: City Attorney
1-9-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Attend Meetings: The City Clerk, as an officer of the City, shall
attend all meetings of the Board of City Commissioners and keep a journal of
the proceedings of said Board.
   B.   Custody Of Records; Custodian Of Seal: The City Clerk shall have
custody of all documents, records and archives of the City, as well as be
custodian of the City Seal.
   C.   Affix Seal To Documents; File Ordinances: The City Clerk shall attest
and affix said seal to documents as required by law or ordinance, and shall see
that all ordinances passed are kept on file, in triplicate, in the Office of
the City Clerk.
   D.   Other Powers And Functions: The City Clerk shall have such other
powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance (see City
Charter,
section 31). (2007 Code § 1-21)
1-9-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   City Manager Act As Treasurer: As provided in the City Charter, the
City Manager shall be the City Treasurer, unless the City Commission wishes to
appoint said Treasurer. If appointed by the City Commission, the City
Treasurer's salary shall be fixed by the Board of City Commissioners.
   B.   Bond Of Office: The City Treasurer shall give a corporate surety bond
to the City in such sum as shall be set and approved by the Board of City
Commissioners.
   C.   Keep Accounts: The City Treasurer shall so keep accounts as to show
where and from what sources all monies paid have been derived, and to whom and
when such monies or any part thereof have been paid. All books, accounts and
vouchers shall at all times be subject to the examination of the Board of City
Commissioners.
   D.   Maintain General Accounting System: The City Treasurer shall maintain a
general accounting system for the City government.
   E.   Duties: The City Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as
may be prescribed by the City Charter, this Code, applicable State law or by
the Board of City Commissioners. (2007 Code § 1-22; amd. Ord. 071111-1, 7-11-
2011)
1-9-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The City Attorney may be appointed by the City Commission,
on a contractual basis.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Give Legal Advice: It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to give
legal advice on questions submitted by the City Commission, when the subject
matter concerns the duties of any City officials or employees, or the
performance of their duties.
      2.   Draft Ordinances, Documents: The City Attorney shall draw such
ordinances, resolutions, notices, forms, leases, deeds, papers or other
documents as may be required or requested by the City Commission.
      3.   Defend Actions Of City: The City Attorney shall be authorized to
appear, prosecute and defend all actions wherein the City is a party, and shall
institute proceedings in courts of law upon the order of the City Commission.
      4.   Other Duties: The City Attorney shall perform such other duties as
the City Commission may require; provided, that such duties are included within
the scope of the contractual arrangement.
   C.   Expense Allowance: The City Attorney shall be allowed actual and
necessary traveling and hotel expenses while outside the City and on official
business for the City; provided, that said business has been approved and
directed by the City Commission. (2007 Code § 1-25)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Application Of Chapter
1-10-2: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-10-3: Municipal Judge; Alternate And Acting Judges
1-10-4: Chief Of Police
1-10-5: City Attorney
1-10-6: Clerk Of The Court
1-10-7: Traffic Violations Bureau
1-10-8: Traffic Violations; Procedure
1-10-9: Style Of Prosecutions
1-10-10: Summons
1-10-11: Complaints Against A Corporation
1-10-12: Warrant Of Arrest
1-10-13: Bail; Temporary Bonds
1-10-14: Arraignment
1-10-15: Trials And Judgment
1-10-16: Court Costs; Additional Fees; Collections
1-10-17: Contract With Collection Agency For Unpaid Debts; Fee
1-10-18: Witness Fees
1-10-19: Enforcement By Imprisonment; Inability To Pay
1-10-20: Suspension Of Sentence
1-10-21: Penalty
1-10-1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Court of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, as put into operation and
continued by resolution, duly passed and filed in accordance with State law, on
and after March 3, 1969.
   B.   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any other ordinance of the City, the provisions of this
chapter shall control. (2007 Code § 11-1)
1-10-2: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine
all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this Code or of any
ordinance of the City is charged, including any such prosecutions transferred
to said court, in accordance with applicable laws. (2007 Code § 11-2)
1-10-3: MUNICIPAL JUDGE; ALTERNATE AND ACTING JUDGES:
   A.   Appointment; Term: There shall be one Judge of the Municipal Court, who
shall be appointed by the City Manager. The official term of the Municipal
Judge shall be two (2) years, expiring on May 15 in each odd numbered year. The
Municipal Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until a
successor is appointed and qualified.
   B.   Qualifications: The Municipal Judge shall be at least thirty (30) years
of age, a resident of the City (unless a licensed attorney), have a high school
education (or the equivalent) and be of good moral character. A Judge who is a
licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but shall
not accept employment inconsistent with duties as a Municipal Judge or arising
out of facts which give rise to, or are connected with, cases within the
jurisdiction of the court pending therein, or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein.
   C.   Compensation:
      1.   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive a salary, paid in the
same manner as the salaries of other City employees. (2007 Code § 1-24)
      2.   The compensation of the Judge and the alternate or acting Judge of
the Municipal Court shall be as determined by the City Manager. (2007 Code §
11-11)
   D.   Judge Not Licensed Attorney: If the Judge of the Municipal Court is not
a licensed attorney, the trial shall be to the court, and the court may not
impose a fine which exceeds the amount allowed by State Statute and may not
order the defendant imprisoned, except for the nonpayment of fines or costs.
See also section
1-10-21 of this chapter.
   E.   Prescribe Rules: The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules, consistent
with the State Constitution and laws and this Code, for the proper conduct of
the business of the Municipal Court.
   F.   Alternate Or Acting Judges: The City Manager may appoint an alternate
Judge of the Municipal Court, possessed of the same qualifications as the
Municipal Judge, as set out in subsection B of this section.
      1.   Said appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the Municipal Judge. The acting Judge shall sit in the Municipal
Court in any case where the Municipal Judge is absent from the court, unable to
act as Municipal Judge in a case.
      2.   If, at any time, there is not a Municipal Judge or alternate Judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Municipal Judge, the City
Manager may appoint some person possessing the qualifications required by this
chapter for the Municipal Judge, who shall preside as acting Judge over the
Municipal Court in the disposition of pending matters, until such time as a
Municipal Judge or alternate Judge shall be available.
      3.   An alternate Judge or an acting Judge shall be paid, as prescribed
by the City Manager, for each day devoted to the performance of all duties,
except that, for any month, the total payments so calculated shall not exceed
the salary of the Municipal Judge. An alternate or acting Judge who sits for an
entire month shall receive the amount specified by the City Commission as the
salary of the Municipal Judge.
   G.   Removal; Vacancies:
      1.   Removal: Judges shall be subject to removal from office for the
causes prescribed by the State Constitution and laws for removal from public
offices. Provisions of the Oklahoma Administrative Procedure Act governing
individual proceedings, 75 Oklahoma Statutes sections 309 through 317 and any
amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing, shall
govern removal proceedings hereunder, so far as they can be made applicable.
      2.   Vacancy: A vacancy in the Office of Municipal Judge shall occur if
the incumbent dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the
office, or is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of
Municipal Judge, the City Manager shall appoint a successor to complete the
unexpired term, using the same procedure as for an original appointment. (2007
Code § 1-24)
   H.   Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judge:
      1.   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
a personal disqualification or may be disqualified from sitting, under the
terms, conditions and procedures provided by law for courts of record.
      2.   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an alternate or acting Judge, appointed as provided in this section. (2007 Code
§ 11-12)
1-10-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief of
Police who shall be the principal officer of the court. (2007 Code § 11-13)
1-10-5: CITY ATTORNEY:
The City Attorney, or a duly designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting
officer of the Municipal Court, and shall be authorized to prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the City, and to prosecute and resist
appeals and proceedings in error and review from the court to any other courts
of the State. The Municipal Attorney shall also be authorized to represent the
City in all proceedings arising out of matters of the court (see section
1-9-3 of this title). (2007 Code § 11-14)
1-10-6: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Duties: The City Clerk, or a designated deputy, shall be the Clerk of
the Court. Duties of the Court Clerk shall include the following:
      1.   Assisting the Municipal Judge in recording the proceedings of the
court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      2.   Administering oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      3.   Entering all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of
the court;
      4.   Performing such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      5.   Receiving and receipting for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court; and
      6.   Assuming responsibility for placing, or having placed, all money
received (except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed for special purposes), in the General Fund of the City, or in such
other fund and in such manner as the City Commission may direct, by motion or
resolution. (2007 Code § 11-15)
   B.   Bond:
      1.   The Clerk of the Court, if the same person as the City Clerk, shall
give bond to the City in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   If the duties of the Clerk of the Court are to be performed by a
designee other than the City Clerk, said Clerk of the Court shall give bond to
the City in the sum of sixty five thousand dollars ($65,000.00). (2007 Code §
11-15; amd. 2019 Code)
1-10-7: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   Bureau Established: A Traffic Violations Bureau is hereby established
as a division of the Office of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by
said Clerk, or by designated subordinates. (2007 Code § 11-16)
   B.   Paying Fine To Bureau:
      1.   Persons who are cited for violation of any of the Traffic Ordinances
of the City, other than the following, may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic
Violations Bureau:
         a.   DUI or DWI.
         b.   Leaving the scene of an accident.
         c.   Reckless driving.
         d.   Violation of financial responsibility requirements.
         e.   Driver's license offenses, e.g., driving under suspended or
revoked license.
         f.   Eluding an officer.
      2.   Fine amounts shall be set by resolution. Fines do not include court
costs that may be assessed, CLEET fees, forensic fees, AFIS fees or any other
fees that may be imposed. (2007 Code § 11-16; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Final Determination; Failure To Pay Fine: The court may adopt further
rules to implement this section. Payment of a fine under this section shall
constitute a final determination of the case against the defendant. If a
defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this section fails so to do,
prosecution shall proceed under other provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code §
11-16)
1-10-8: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Release By Officer: If a police officer observes facts which are
believed to constitute a violation of the Traffic Ordinances of the City
committed by any person, whether a resident of this State or a nonresident, who
is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a violation of a City
Traffic Ordinance, such person shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by Oklahoma, another state jurisdiction within the United States,
or any participating jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs or acknowledges, as evidenced by the
electronic signature of the person, a written promise to appear, as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony,
         b.   Negligent homicide,
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician,
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer,
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license or while the driving privilege and driver's license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation,
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant, or
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section.
   B.   Duties Of Arresting Officer:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in subsection A of this section, then the arresting
officer shall, on the citation:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the driver's license of the arrested
person on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth,
physical description, type of driver's license, driver's license number,
issuing state, and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the date and time on the citation on which, or before
which, the arrested person promises to contact, pay, or appear at the court, as
applicable to the court; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign, in writing or by electronic
signature, a promise to contact, pay, or appear at the court, as provided for
in the citation. The written or electronic signature of the arrested person
shall serve as evidence and acknowledgment of the promise to contact, pay, or
appear at the court.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the acknowledged promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon an acknowledged promise to appear, as evidenced by the
written or electronic signature of the person, for arraignment is conditional
and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in the
suspension of the driving privilege and driver's license of the arrested person
in this State, or in the home state of the nonresident pursuant to the
nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Time Of Arraignment: The court, or the Court Clerk as directed by the
court, may continue or reschedule the date and time of arraignment at the
discretion of the court or upon request of the arrested person or the attorney
for that person. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested
person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise to appear
until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same consequences, as
if the continued or rescheduled arraignment were entered on the citation by the
arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued
or rescheduled more than one time; provided, however, the court shall require
an arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of
the defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as
provided for in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Plea By Defendant: A defendant released upon personal recognizance may
elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at
any time before the defendant is required to appear for arraignment by
indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to the defendant or
on a legible copy, together with the date of the plea and signature of the
defendant, or such plea may be entered by the defendant using an electronic
method provided by the court for such purposes, either through the website of
the court or otherwise. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring full
payment of the fine and costs to the appropriate Court Clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier's, traveler's, certified or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the court in an amount prescribed as bail for the offense.
Provided, however, the defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If
the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided in
this subsection, such plea shall be accepted by the court upon payment in full
of the amount of the fine and costs as prescribed in this chapter as bail for
the violation. Acceptance of a plea entered in such a manner as described
herein shall constitute a final determination of the cause against the
defendant.
   E.   Failure To Respond Or Appear; Notification To State:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter. The Municipal Court Clerk,
within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was
issued by the arresting officer, shall notify the State Department of Public
Safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after acknowledging a written promise to appear for
arraignment as provided in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied, as provided by law.
Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the State Department of Public
Safety to either suspend the driving privilege and driver's license of the
defendant to operate a motor vehicle in this State, or notify the home state of
the defendant and request suspension of the driving privilege and driver's
license of the defendant in accordance with the provisions of the nonresident
violator compact. The notice and request shall be on a form approved or
furnished by the Department of Public Safety.
      2.   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in subsection E1 of this section if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case, or
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon an
acknowledged written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment, or
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Record Of Driver's License Suspension Requests To State: The Municipal
Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving privilege and
driver's license suspension submitted to the State Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the court or Court Clerk
receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the
citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the
case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to the defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant or by e-mail if the
defendant has furnished an e-mail address for such purposes. Additionally, the
court or Court Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as
listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident
violator compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the department of the
resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for notification
shall be approved by the Department of Public Safety. Provided however, failure
by the court or Court Clerk to furnish such proof or notice in the manner
provided in this subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon
the court, the Court Clerk, the State of Oklahoma or any political subdivision
thereof, or any State department or agency or any employee thereof but
duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled to such proof or
notice upon request.
   G.   Release Determined By Officer; Bail:
      1.   If a resident of the City is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for the violation of any Traffic Ordinance for which subsections A through F of
this section do not apply, the officer shall immediately release said person if
the person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it by either written
or electronic signature. Provided, however, the arresting officer need not
release said person if it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may
cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if released, that the
person will not appear in response to the citation, or the person is arrested
for an offense against a person or property. If said person fails to appear in
response to the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided for in this chapter, and a warrant shall be
issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
      2.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign
a citation as provided for in this section, said person shall be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance. A fine for up to the maximum amount authorized by courts not of
record may be assessed for failure of a person to have a valid driver's license
when charged with a traffic violation.
      3.   If a resident or nonresident of the City is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsections A
through F of this section do not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
      4.   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of subsections G1, G2 and G3 of this section shall be determined by the Judge,
who shall prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and the release on personal
recognizance. The amount of bail for each offense shall not exceed the maximum
fine plus court costs, unless the defendant has a previous history of failing
to appear according to the terms or conditions of a bond, in which case the
amount of bail shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In the event
of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the Judge is not available, a court
official, the Chief of Police or his designated representative may be
authorized by the Judge, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by
the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the
appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall not exceed the maximum fine
provided for by ordinance for each offense charged, unless the defendant has a
previous history of failing to appear according to the terms or conditions of a
bond, in which case the amount of the cash bond shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). The court official, Chief of Police or his designated
representative is authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed
by the Judge, to release a resident of the City on personal recognizance.
      5.   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance, as provided for in subsections A through G1 of this section, or
is eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the officer shall
deliver the person to an appropriate Judge for arraignment and the Judge shall
proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no Judge is available, the
defendant shall be placed in the custody of the appropriate Municipal jailor or
custodian, to be held until a Judge is available, or bail is posted as provided
for by ordinance, before or after arraignment.
   H.   Juvenile Violators: Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a
juvenile may be held in custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but
shall be incarcerated separately from any adult offender. Provided, however,
the arresting officer shall not be required to:
      1.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section;
      2.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
         a.   Who is injured, disabled, or otherwise incapacitated,
         b.   If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care, or
         c.   If extraordinary circumstances exist, which, in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      3.   In such cases, the arresting officer may record the date and time on
the citation by which, or on which, the person shall appear or contact the
court, as applicable to the court, and release the person. If the person fails
to appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the
arrest of the person.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to:
         a.   Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person
from custody,
         b.   Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry or
investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
subsection, or
         c.   Create any liability upon any officer, or the State or any
political subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not to
release such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.
   I.   Parking Violations; Citations: If the alleged offense is a violation of
an ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in this section, with such variation as the circumstances require.
The operator of the vehicle shall be under full obligation to respond to the
citation.
   J.   Electronic Signature: For purposes of this section, "electronic
signature" shall have the same meaning as defined in 12A Oklahoma Statutes
section 15-102. (2007 Code § 11-17; amd. 2019 Code)
1-10-9: STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS:
All prosecutions for violation of this Code or other ordinances of the City,
shall be styled "The City of Waurika, Oklahoma, Plaintiff, vs. (naming
defendant or defendants)". Except as otherwise provided with respect to traffic
violations, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint and
setting forth concisely the offense charged. (2007 Code § 11-18)
1-10-10: SUMMONS:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint: Upon the filing of a complaint charging a
violation of this Code or other ordinance(s) of the City, the Municipal Judge,
unless said Judge determines to issue a warrant of arrest, unless the defendant
previously has been issued a citation, or unless said defendant has been
arrested and given bond for such appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying the address or place of residence (if known),
stating the offense charged and giving notice to answer the charge in the
Municipal Court on a day certain, five (5) days hence (Sundays and holidays
excepted), or the next Municipal Court date after the summons is served,
containing a provision for the official return of the summons and including
such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. Failure to appear and answer the summons within the
prescribed period shall constitute indirect contempt of court, and a warrant
shall be issued for the defendant's arrest, as provided by this chapter. (2007
Code § 11-19)
1-10-11: COMPLAINTS AGAINST A CORPORATION:
   A.   Issuing Summons: Upon complaint against a corporation being filed with
the Municipal Judge of the City, said Judge shall issue a summons in a form as
outlined in this chapter, signed with the title of office, requiring the
corporation to appear before said Judge at a specific time and place to answer
the complaint.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons must be served at least two (2) days
before the day of appearance fixed therein, by delivering a copy thereof and
showing the original to the president, secretary, cashier or managing agent or
director of the corporation.
   C.   Trying Complaint: At the time appointed in the summons, the Municipal
Judge shall try the complaint in the same manner as in the case of any other
person brought before said court.
   D.   Collection Of Fine: When a fine is imposed upon conviction, it may be
collected by the Municipal Judge making a transcript of the proceedings
thereof, together with the judgment of the court duly certified and filed with
the Clerk of the District Court, and execution shall be issued thereon and
served by the Sheriff of the County, as in cases of execution generally. (2007
Code § 11-20)
1-10-12: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as may otherwise be provided in this Code, upon
the filing of a complaint, approved by the endorsement of the City Attorney or
by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in
substantially the following form:
The City of Waurika, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the Municipal Court of
Waurika, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by         , that the offense of
         has been committed and accusing         , thereof, you are commended
therefore forthwith to arrest the above named (Defendant or Defendants) and
bring (him, her, them) before me at my office at the Waurika, Oklahoma,
Municipal Court Room.
Witness my hand this      day of         , 20   .
         Judge of the Municipal Court
         of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
   B.   Execution Of Warrants: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
execute such warrant as promptly as possible, either: 1) personally, 2) through
a duly constituted member of the police force of the City, or 3) through any
other person lawfully authorized to act. (2007 Code § 11-21)
1-10-13: BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS:
   A.   Whenever a resident of the City is arrested for a violation of any
ordinance by a police officer of the City, the officer shall immediately
release such person if said individual acknowledges receipt of a citation by
signing it, unless it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may
cause self-injury or injury to others, or damage to property, if released, or
if it reasonably appears that the person will not appear in response to the
citation. (If such person fails to appear in response to the citation, an
arrest warrant shall be issued and an appearance in court shall be compelled.)
   B.   Whenever a resident of the City is arrested by a police officer of the
City for the violation of any ordinance, and is not released by being permitted
to sign a citation as provided in subsection A of this section, said resident
shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or released on
said person's own recognizance.
   C.   Whenever a nonresident of the City is arrested by a police officer of
the City for a violation other than a traffic violation, the defendant shall be
eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment. (2007 Code
§ 11-22)
   D.   The City may require any person who is arrested by a police officer of
the City for a City traffic violation to comply with statutory procedures for
State traffic violations, with respect to the release of the arrested person.
The following methods of posting bail shall apply:
      1.   Posting cash bail, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the
arresting officer; or
      2.   Depositing with the arresting officer a "guaranteed arrest bond
certificate". (2007 Code § 11-22; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   The amount and any conditions of bail granted under this section shall
be determined by the Municipal Judge, who shall prescribe rules for the receipt
of bail and for release by personal recognizance. In the event of arrests at
night, other emergencies, or when the Municipal Judge is not available, the
Chief of Police (or a designated representative) shall be authorized by the
Municipal Judge, under such conditions as shall be prescribed by said Judge, to
accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of
the accused, but in no event shall the cash bond be more than the allowable
maximum fine for each offense charged. The Chief of Police (or his designated
representative) is authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be
prescribed by the Municipal Judge, to release a resident of the City on said
person's own recognizance. (2007 Code § 11-22)
1-10-14: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making an appearance before the Municipal Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Municipal Judge or the City Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform said defendant of all legal rights, of the consequences
of conviction, and ask whether the plea is guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence, or may
continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(2007 Code § 11-23)
1-10-15: TRIALS AND JUDGMENT:
   A.   Postponement Of Trial: Before a trial commences in the Municipal Court,
either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement
thereof. (2007 Code § 11-24)
   B.   Trial Procedure: In all trials in the Municipal Court as to matters not
covered: 1) in this chapter, 2) by the statutes relating to Municipal Criminal
Courts, or 3) by rules duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the
procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall
apply, to the extent that they can be made effective. (2007 Code § 11-25)
   C.   Contempt:
      1.   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Municipal
Judge or by the Municipal Court, may be enforced by said Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed while holding court, or committed against
processes issued by said Judge, in the same manner and to the same extent, as
the District Courts of this State.
      2.   It shall be an offense to be in contempt, directly or indirectly, of
the Municipal Court of the City, and of its orders. (2007 Code § 11-26)
   D.   Presence Of Defendant At Trial:
      1.   The defendant must be personally present at the trial in the
Municipal Court. (2007 Code § 11-27)
      2.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of the bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial
or judgment, or upon any other occasion when presence in court or before the
Magistrate may be lawfully required, the Municipal Judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. Without advancing court costs, said Judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the County, where it shall
be entered upon the judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of
a District Court judgment. At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the
District Court Judgment Docket, the District Court Clerk shall proceed in
accordance with the applicable provisions of State Statutes. (2007 Code § 11-
27; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Judgment:
      1.   At the close of a trial in the Municipal Court, judgment must be
rendered by the Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his
docket.
      2.   If the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, said defendant must
be discharged at once.
      3.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
Municipal Court must render judgment thereof, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by this Code or other applicable ordinance, and imposing
sentence accordingly. (2007 Code § 11-28)
1-10-16: COURT COSTS; ADDITIONAL FEES; COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Court Costs: Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-126, as
amended, court costs shall be no more than thirty dollars ($30.00) plus witness
and mileage fees, per case and may be added to the fine. All funds collected
shall be deposited in the appropriate fund.
   B.   Additional Mandated Fees, Costs And Assessments: In addition to the
court costs collected pursuant to subsection A of this section, for every fine,
deferral fee in lieu of a fine, or bond forfeiture collected by the Municipal
Court of the City, additional local and State-mandated fees, costs, and penalty
assessments shall be collected as provided in 20 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1313.2, 1313.3, 1313.4, as amended, and as provided in other applicable State
law and in this Code. The City Treasurer, or other individual designated by the
City Council, shall forward mandated reimbursements to the State on a quarterly
basis unless otherwise required by law.
   C.   Costs Related To Prisoner Confinement:
      1.   Notwithstanding other costs allowed pursuant to this section and
this Code, the Municipal Court, at its discretion, may require that a person
confined in the County Jail, both before or after conviction, upon conviction,
or receiving a deferred sentence in lieu of a fine, pay the contract account
owed by the City to the County Sheriffs Office for the cost of incarceration of
the individual.
      2.   The Municipal Court, in its discretion, addition to the contact
amount paid to the County Sheriffs Department for the incarceration of the
individual convicted, may also assess additional cost associated with medical
care, dental care, psychiatric services or other costs expended for the health
services provided to the Municipal prisoner.
      3.   The cost of incarceration shall be paid by the inmate to the City
and shall be collected by the Clerk of the Municipal Court. The Clerk of the
Municipal Court-shall then pay the monies collected to the City Treasurer for
payments as required pursuant to 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 979a.
   D.   Collection Fees: Any person convicted of any offense or misdemeanor who
fails to pay all or a portion of any penalties, fines, defenal fees,
assessments, fees, warrants, court costs, oi other applicable costs whose
unpaid balance is referred to a collection agency shall pay a collection fee in
an amount not to exceed thiffy five percent (35%) per offense, in addition to-
the remainder of the unsatisfied monetary obligation.
   E.   Technology Fee: A Municipal Court technology fee is hereby established
in the amount, which shall be set by a resolution of the Board of City
Commissioners. The fee shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for,
any and all costs, fees, fines, assessments, or penalties otherwise provided
for by law, and assessed on every citation disposed of in the Municipal Court
except those that are voided, declined for prosecution, dismissed without
costs, or the defendant is acquitted. Citations for which fees and costs are
specifically limited by law shall also be excluded from assessment of said
technology fee. The revenues generated by this fee shall be used solely and
exclusively for the acquisition, operation, maintenance, repair, lease, and
replacement of hardware, software, and peripheral technological equipment used
in the operation, prosecution, and administration of the Municipal Court and
criminal justice system of the City, which shall include, but is not limited
to: computers, hardware, and software needs of the Municipal Court; audio,
video, and other electonic technologies to assist with Municipal Court
proceedings; Digi ticket and/or other electonic ticketing technology lease
funds; and the maintenance of said Municipal Court electronics.
   F.   Deferral Processing Fee: In the event the court grants a deferred
sentence, there is hereby established an administrative deferral processing fee
which shall be set by a resolution of the Board of City Commissioners, or other
such fee as allowed by law, which shall be in addition to and not in
substitution for any and all fines, fees, penalties, and court costs assessed
and otherwise provided for by law for the offense. This deferral processing fee
shall be assessed on every citation for which a deferred sentence is granted.
   G.   Vehicle Maintenance Fee: A Vehicle Maintenance fee shall be and is
hereby established in the amount, which shall be set by a resolution of the
Board of City Commissioners. The fee shall be in addition to, and not in
substifution for, any and all costs, fees, fines, assessments, or penalties
otherwise provided for by law, and assessed on every citation disposed of in
the Municipal Court except those that are voided, declined for prosecution,
dismissed without costs, or the defendant is acquitted. Citations for which
fees and costs are specifically limited by law shall also be excluded from
assessment of said vehicle maintenance fee. The revenues generated by this fee
shall be used solely and exclusively for law enforcement vehicle and equipment
maintenance, including the purchase of new law enforcement vehicles and
equipment.
   H.   Police Pension Fee: A Police Pension fee shall be and is hereby
established in the amount, which shall be set by a resolution of the Board of
City Commissioners. The fee shall be in addition to, and not in substitution
for, any and all costs, fees, fines, assessments, or penalties otherwise
provided for by law, and assessed on every citation disposed of in the
Municipal Court except those that are voided, declined for prosecution,
dismissed without costs, or the defendant is acquitted. Citations for which
fees and costs are specifically limited by law shall also be excluded from
assessment of said police pension fee. The revenues generated by this fee shall
be used solely and exclusively for municipal obligated police pension payments.
(Ord. 12012017-1, 12-4-2017; amd. Ord. 2142022-02, 2-14-2022; Ord. 05092022-10,
5-9-2022)
1-10-17: CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY FOR UNPAID DEBTS; FEE:
   A.   City Collection Fee Allowed: If the City has entered a contract with a
collection agency pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-138, the City is
authorized to a collection fee in an amount not to exceed thirty five percent
(35%) on the following:
      1.   Debts and accounts receivable including, but not limited to, unpaid
fees, penalties, interest, and other sums due the City, as applicable; and
      2.   Court penalties, costs, fines and fees in cases in Municipal Court
in which the accused has failed to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a
monetary obligation ordered by the court;
that have been referred by the City to the collection agency for collection.
   B.   Court-Ordered Fee: If the City has entered into such a contract with a
collection agency, and the collection fee is authorized as stated in subsection
A of this section, the court shall order defendants to reimburse the fee
arising pursuant to subsection A2 of this section, and such court- ordered fee
may be collected as provided by law for the collection of any other civil debt
or criminal action. (Ord. 050514-1, 6-2-2014)
1-10-18: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Payment Of Witnesses: Witnesses in any proceeding in the Municipal
Court, other than police officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to such
sum as allowed by statute for each day of attendance, plus such sum as allowed
by statute for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to, and
returning from, the place of attendance, if their residence is more than five
(5) miles outside the corporate limits of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma. No
witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period
of time or the same travel. (2007 Code § 11-32; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Deposit For Witness Subpoenas:
      1.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit, with the
Clerk of the Court, a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned; such deposit shall not be required
from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of poverty, is unable to provide
fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of such witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for proper
defense.
      2.   The fees of witnesses in such cases shall be paid by the City. (2007
Code § 11-32)
1-10-19: ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT; INABILITY TO PAY:
   A.   Refusal To Pay Fine Or Costs; Imprisonment: If a defendant, who is
financially able, refuses or neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment
may be enforced by imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied, at the rate
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
   B.   Action Upon Inability To Pay: If the defendant is without means to pay
the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the
County, where it shall be entered upon the District Court Judgment Docket and
shall have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon,
the same remedies shall be available for the enforcement of said judgment as
are available to any other judgment creditor. (2007 Code § 11-30; amd. 2019
Code)
1-10-20: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE:
   A.   Suspension: After conviction and sentence of a defendant in the
Municipal Court, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence in accordance with
the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by,
applicable provisions of title 11 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
   B.   Order For Community Service: The Municipal Judge may, in lieu of
imprisonment or fines, order the defendant to engage in a term of specified
community service, without compensation. (2007 Code § 11-31)
1-10-21: PENALTY:
   A.   Judge A Licensed Attorney: If the Judge of the Municipal Court is a
licensed attorney, the court may impose a fine not to exceed the maximum fine
allowable by State law plus court costs. (Ord. 090816-2, 9-8-2016)
   B.   Judge Not A Licensed Attorney: If the Judge is not a licensed attorney,
the court may impose a fine not to exceed the maximum fine allowable by State
law for nonjury trials plus court costs. (2007 Code § 11-40; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Fines And Imprisonment: Fines do not include court costs or any
additional fees that may be imposed by the State. The Judge may impose
imprisonment when allowed by State Statute. (2007 Code § 11-40)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEPOT PRESERVATION ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointment; Terms
2-1-2: Removal
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Operating Rules And Regulations
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-6: Officers; Legal Counsel
2-1-7: Duties And Responsibilities
2-1-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created the Historical Preservation
Advisory Board to be composed of nine (9) citizens who are qualified electors
of the City.
   B.   Appointment; Terms: Board members shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Commission; the members first appointed shall serve for
terms of one, two (2), and three (3) years, to be designated by the Mayor in
groups of three (3), and thereafter upon the expiration of their respective
terms, their successors shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. (2007
Code § 1-39; amd. Ord. 01082024-01, 1-8-2024)
2-1-2: REMOVAL:
Members appointed by the Mayor may be removed by the Mayor, upon written notice
being provided to, and approved by, the City Commission. (2007 Code § 1-39)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Board members shall receive no compensation for their services as members of
the board. All expenditures of the board shall be approved by the City
Commission and City Manager. (2007 Code § 1-39)
2-1-4: OPERATING RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Board may recommend operating rules and regulations as are necessary and
expedient for the proper operation and management of properties and facilities
that are listed on the Oklahoma National Register of Historical Places
(hereinafter referred to as "Historical Registry"), and shall propose
alterations, changes or amendments to such rules and regulations to the City
Commission for consideration; provided, that regulations established by
resolution or ordinance may only be amended by resolution or ordinance. Five
(5) voting members shall constitute a quorum. (2007 Code § 1-39; amd. Ord.
01082024-01, 1-8-2024)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
The board shall schedule at least eleven (11) regular meetings each year, which
regular meeting shall be held at City Hall, the date and time of which shall be
determined by said board, but other meetings may be held at any time or place
upon the call of the Chairman of the board, the City Manager, or the Mayor,
consistent with the requirements of the State Open Meetings Act. (2007 Code §
1-39; amd. Ord. 01082024-01, 1-8-2024)
2-1-6: OFFICERS; LEGAL COUNSEL:
   A.   Officers: The board shall elect annually from its voting members, a
Chairman and Vice Chairman, and shall also appoint a Secretary who may, but
need not be, a voting member of said board.
   B.   Legal Counsel: The City Attorney shall serve as ex officio legal
counsel for said board. (2007 Code § 1-39; amd. Ord. 01082024-01, 1-8-2024)
2-1-7: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of said board shall include the following:
   A.   Assist, as requested by the City Manager with the coordination of the
operations conducted within properties and facilities on the Historical
Registry, and with all other public, private and nonprofit boards or entities
relating to said operations.
   B.   Maintain a file of completed drawings, plans, specifications and
warranty materials concerning the Depot Facility, along with all other
appropriate materials; said files shall be under the direct supervision of the
City Manager and maintained in the City Hall, although a duplicate set may be
kept in the depot.
   C.   Develop and maintain a research program related to the historic
importance of the depot, to include appropriately stored and catalogued
newspaper files, photographic collections and oral history materials.
   D.   Coordinate with the Municipal Library Board and the Waurika Public
School System in the development of educational programs related to the depot's
historic, cultural, social and architectural significance.
   E.   Provide an annual recommendation to the City Manager, prior to the
preparation of the Municipal budget, concerning the depot's estimated
maintenance needs and costs for the coming year, as well as any significant
capital improvement needs for the facility and its surrounding area.
   F.   Monitor the status of the Municipal Capital Improvement Fund created
for any properties and facilities on the Historical Registry, and provide
specific recommendations for expenditures therefrom. The board may also sponsor
or cosponsor, approve of, or conduct appropriate and legal types of fund
raising activities for properties and facilities on the Historical Registry.
   G.   Coordinate in the planning of, or initiate the planning of, all
programs, activities or efforts relating to the depot, particularly those which
involve beautification, development or rezoning of surrounding areas, road
improvements adjacent to or affecting the depot, recreational area development,
or any type of increased interaction with the area's neighborhoods or the
City's Central Business District; in the investigation, review and
consideration of all planning, zoning and development activities which affect
properties and facilities on the Historical Registry.
   H.   Assure that all work done on the depot, including maintenance, is
accomplished according to the "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Historic Rehabilitation" (which are listed below):
      1.   Compatible Uses: Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a
compatible use for a property which requires minimal alteration of the
building, structure or site and its environment, or to use a property for its
originally intended purpose.
      2.   Original Features: The distinguishing original qualities or
character of a building, structure or site and its environment shall not be
destroyed. The removal or alteration of any historic material or distinctive
architectural features should be avoided when possible.
      3.   Historical Basis For Alterations: All buildings, structures and
sites shall be recognized as products of their own time. Alterations that have
no historical basis and which seek to create an earlier appearance shall be
discouraged.
      4.   Evolving Significance Of Changes: Changes which may have taken place
in the course of time are evidence of the history and development of a
building, structure or site and its environment. These changes may have
acquired significance in their own right, and this significance shall be
recognized and respected.
      5.   Distinctive Features: Distinctive stylistic features or examples of
skilled craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure or site shall be
treated with sensitivity.
      6.   Repairs And Replacements: Deteriorated architectural features shall
be repaired rather than replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement
is necessary, the new material should match the material being replaced in
composition, design, color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or
replacement of missing architectural features should be based on accurate
duplications of features, substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial
evidence rather than on conjectural designs or the availability of different
architectural elements from other buildings or structures.
      7.   Surface Cleaning Methods: The surface cleaning of structures shall
be undertaken with the gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning
methods that will damage the historic building materials shall not be
undertaken.
      8.   Archeological Resources: Every reasonable effort shall be made to
protect and preserve archeological resources affected by or adjacent to any
project.
      9.   Contemporary Designs: Contemporary design for alterations and
additions to existing properties shall be encouraged when such alterations and
additions do not destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural
material, and such design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material
and character of the property, neighborhood or environment.
      10.   Design Of New Additions: Wherever possible, new additions or
alterations to structures shall be done in such a manner that if such additions
or alterations were to be removed in the future, the essential form and
integrity of the structure would be unimpaired.
   I.   The board shall have such additional duties and powers as the City
Commission may provide, by amending this Code. (2007 Code § 1-39; amd. Ord.
01082024-01, 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPEALS BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Appointment; Terms; Administration
2-2-2: Duties As Zoning Board Of Adjustment
2-2-3: Serve As Floodplain Variance Appeals Board
2-2-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS; ADMINISTRATION:
A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby created for the City. Said Board shall
consist of five (5) members, appointed by the City Commission. The term of the
members thereof and the filling of vacancies therein shall be as set by the
City Commission. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance
with the provisions of this section or any amendment thereto. Meetings of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at
such times as such Board may determine. All meetings of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall be open to the public. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, show the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicate such fact, and shall keep
a record of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the Office of the City Clerk and become a public record.
(2007 Code § 1-41)
2-2-2: DUTIES AS ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the City Clerk, building
inspector, or other administrative official;
   B.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the zoning or
other ordinances upon which the Zoning Board of Adjustment is required to pass;
and
   C.   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, variances from the terms of
such ordinances as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance
will result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinances will
be observed and substantial justice done. (2007 Code § 1-41)
2-2-3: SERVE AS FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPEALS BOARD:
   A.   Duties: The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall also serve as the Appeals
Board to hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the
requirements of Floodplain Management Regulations. The Appeals Board shall hear
and render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in
any requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector in
the enforcement or administration of the City's Floodplain Management
Regulations.
   B.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal such decision in any court of competent jurisdiction. The
building inspector shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal
and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
upon request.
   C.   Issuance Of Variances: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, the State Register of Historic Places, or locally registered
as a historic landmark, without regard to the procedures set forth in the
remainder of this section. Variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level; provided, that all relevant factors
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2)
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance shall
increase. Upon consideration of all factors noted above, the Appeals Board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes and objectives of the City's Floodplain Management
Program. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances: Prerequisites for granting
variances shall include:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon: a) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, b) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and c) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nuisance
creation, fraud or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local
laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant for whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
      4.   Variances may be issued by the City for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that: a) the criteria outlined in this
Code are met, and b) the structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety. (2007 Code § 1-41)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Appointment; Terms
2-3-2: Responsibilities; Rules And Regulations
2-3-3: Funding For Services
2-3-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a Library Board for the City
(see City Charter
section 58). (2007 Code § 1-44)
   B.   Appointment; Terms: The Library Board shall consist of a minimum of
five (5) members with a maximum of nine (9) members, each of whom shall be a
resident of the City, and who shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the City Commission. All appointments and confirmations to the
Library Board shall be for terms of three (3) years from the expiration of the
term of office of the members of said board whose terms have expired. (Ord.
040510-2, 4-5-2010)
2-3-2: RESPONSIBILITIES; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Advisory Responsibilities: The Library Board shall have advisory
responsibilities for the management of the Municipal Library in the City.
   B.   Library Operation Rules And Regulations: The Library Board may make all
necessary rules and regulations for the operation, care and management of the
Municipal Library, subject to approval and enactment by the City Commission.
(2007 Code § 1-44)
2-3-3: FUNDING FOR SERVICES:
   A.   Board Authority: Within the limits of available funds (including annual
appropriations made for the purpose by the City), the Library Board may
contract for services, books and supplies, utility services and maintenance of
the library property; and claims for those purposes and other legitimate
purposes necessary for maintenance and operation of the library, approved by
the Library Board, shall be presented to the Board of City Commissioners for
approval and payment from available funds.
   B.   Gifts, Grants; Loans Of Materials: The Library Board may contract for,
and receive, funds for the use and support of the library and its operation
from the United States, the State of Oklahoma, and any other source, in the
forms of gifts, grants and in loans of materials. (2007 Code § 1-44)
CHAPTER 4
CHARTER REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Appointment
2-4-2: Removal
2-4-3: Officers
2-4-4: Meetings
2-4-5: Duties
2-4-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a Charter Review Board, consisting of five (5) members
who shall be appointed by the City Manager subject to the approval of the
majority of the Board of City Commissioners. The Charter Review Board shall be
convened when called by the City Manager, but no less than every ten years.
Each member's appointment shall conclude upon the Board of City Commissioner's
receipt of the Committee's written report with proposed changes. Charter Review
Board members shall receive no compensation for their services on the Board and
shall reside within the Independent School District #23, Jefferson County,
Oklahoma. The City Manager shall be an ex-officio member. (Ord. 11082021-10,
11-8-2021)
2-4-2: REMOVAL:
Members may be removed by the City Manager, without cause, upon approval of a
majority vote of the Board of City Commissioners. (Ord. 11082021-10, 11-8-2021)
2-4-3: OFFICERS:
The Charter Review Board shall select one member to serve as Chairperson of the
Board and one member to serve as Vice-Chairperson of the Board. The Chairperson
shall preside over the meetings. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson shall preside over the meetings. (Ord. 11082021-10, 11-8-2021)
2-4-4: MEETINGS:
The Board shall schedule a minimum of two (2) meetings in a manner consistent
with the Oklahoma Open Meetings act; and shall include a public hearing portion
by which members of the community may address the Charter Review Board. At the
end of each meeting, the Chairperson will ask for a vote and approval of
recommended changes to the Charter, and/or to move the review to the next
portion or subject matter of the Charter, as appropriate. City staff shall keep
the minutes of each meeting, including any recommendations to the Board of City
Commissioners. (Ord. 11082021-10, 11-8-2021)
2-4-5: DUTIES:
The Charter Review Board shall review and study the existing City Charter for
purposes of recommending amendments as the Board believes to be in the best
interest of the City. The Board shall prepare and submit a written report to
the Board of City Commissioners within ninety (90) days consisting of
recommendations in the form of proposed amendments to the Charter for review
and consideration by the Board of City Commissioners of possible amendments to
submit to the voters. Upon request of the Chairperson, the City Manager may
grant an extension of time beyond the ninety (go) day timeframe. Any such
changes recommended by the Board to the Board of City Commissioners shall be
advisory only and will not be construed in any way as binding. (Ord. 11082021-
10, 11-8-2021)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS PROCEDURES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purchasing And Sales Procedures
3-1-2: Competitive Bidding And Purchasing Regulations
3-1-3: Insurance
3-1-4: Capital Improvements Fund
3-1-1: PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purchasing Authorized:
      1.   The City shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase
authorization for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the operation of
the City government. Before the purchase of, or contract for, any supplies,
materials or equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such
regulations and with such exceptions as the City Charter and the City
Commission may prescribe, shall be given.
      2.   The City Manager, subject to any regulations which the City
Commission may prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase
authorization for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices,
departments and agencies of the City government. Every such contract or
purchase exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall require the prior
approval of the City Commission. This authorization amount shall not be
applicable to purchases or contracts governed by the City Charter.
   B.   Contractual Services Defined: "Contractual services", for the purpose
of this chapter, shall mean services performed for the City by persons not in
the employ of the City and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing
of commodities in connection with such services under express or implied
contract. "Contractual services" shall include travel, freight, express, parcel
post, postage, telephone, telegraph, utilities, rents, printing and binding,
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets, bridges
and other physical facilities of the City.
   C.   Selling Or Disposing of Surplus Or Obsolete Supplies Or Equipment:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of State law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment belonging to the City may be sold.
      2.   No sale shall be made under this section until the City Commission
has declared the supplies, materials or equipment involved to be surplus or
obsolete.
      3.   Except as may otherwise be provided, the City Commission shall
advertise any sale under this section in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City or County, or in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately
reach prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids
shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The City Commission may repeatedly reject all bids
and advertise again. The City Commission shall sell such supplies, materials
and equipment to the highest responsible bidder and, if necessary, shall cast
lots in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell.
   D.   Payment Procedure In Lieu Of Purchase Orders: Upon direction from the
City Manager, a payment procedure shall be implemented whereby all properly
submitted and due claims and invoices shall be processed and paid in the
following manner:
      1.   The City Clerk or his/her designee shall:
         a.   Accumulate all properly submitted and due claims and invoices to
be processed for payment;
         b.   Confirm the availability of the appropriately designated funds to
be used;
         c.   Present said due claims and invoices to the City Manager for
confirmation of the validity of the expenses incurred;
         d.   Encumber the confirmed, appropriately designated funds from being
utilized for any further purpose than as described therein;
         e.   Present said due claims and invoices to the Mayor or his/her
designee for consideration and approval for payment;
         f.   Issue properly signed checks, or other authorized forms of
payment, in payment of said claims and invoices; and
         g.   Prepare a list of claims and invoices paid, which shall be
submitted, for informational purposes, to the Board of City Commissioners at
their next regular meeting following the payment date.
      2.   When implemented by the City Manager, the payment process and
procedure detailed in subsection D1 of this section shall also apply to all
public trusts for which the City is the sole beneficiary. (Ord. 06072018-01, 6-
7-2018; amd. Ord. 08182021-05, 8-18-2021; Ord. 04112022-09, 4-11-2022; Ord.
07102023-06, 7-10-2023)
3-1-2: COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND PURCHASING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Statute:
      1.   The City shall adhere to the provisions of 61 Oklahoma Statutes
section 101 et seq., as amended, when determining when competitive bidding is
required and the manner in which competitive bidding will be obtained.
      2.   In addition to the requirements of subsection A1 of this section,
public trusts created pursuant to 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176, of which
the City is beneficiary, shall also follow the competitive bidding provisions
of 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176, as amended.
      3.   On contracts for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services, the City Commission may establish a certain dollar amount
for compulsory competitive bidding which is less than that required by State
Statute. Said minimum dollar amount may be established and amended by
resolution.
   B.   Commission Approval And Compliance With Bidding Requirements: Unless
otherwise limited by
sections 35 and
36 of the City Charter, this Code, or State Statute, any purchase in excess of
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for any single item shall require
the approval of the City Commission and compliance with the general bidding
requirements, with such exceptions as the City Charter and the City Commission
may prescribe.
   C.   Bidding Generally: Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies,
materials, equipment, or contractual services is made, except as otherwise
provided herein, the City Purchasing Authority shall submit to at least three
(3) persons dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for quotation (or
invitation to bid) and specifications, to give them opportunity to bid; or
publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City. The Purchasing Authority shall favor a person in the City when
this can be done without additional cost to the City; but he shall submit
requests for quotation to those outside the City when this may be necessary to
secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he thinks that by so
doing he can make a saving for the City; and shall purchase from them when he
can make a saving for the City. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in
public at a designated time and place. The Purchasing Authority may repeatedly
reject all bids, and again may submit to the same or other persons the request
for quotation (or invitation to bid), or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase. He may purchase only from the bidder whose bid is most advantageous
to the City, considering price, quality, date of delivery, and so on. In the
case of a tie, he may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide the
purchase among those tying, always accepting the bids most advantageous to the
City.
   D.   Competitive Bidding Not Required: The following may be purchased
without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where cost
does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in a single
transaction;
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
      4.   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of City Commissioners declares the purchase an emergency;
      5.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, and the
like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
State Corporation Commission or other government authority;
      6.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State Purchasing
Agency, the Federal Purchasing Agency known as the United States General
Services Administration (GSA), or any other State or Federal agency authorized
to regulate prices for things purchased by the State or United States (whether
such price is determined by a contract negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      7.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, medical and legal services;
      8.   Supplies, materials or equipment purchased from a vendor or another
State governmental entity, at a price not exceeding a price established under
the competitive bidding process undertaken by the governmental entity, such as
a County or City government; provided, that the competitive bid was a valid
competitive bid, was submitted to more than three (3) vendors, and no more than
six (6) months have passed since the receipt of the bids or proposals by the
governmental entity. Proof of the above shall be presented to the Board of City
Commissioners with any request for an exception under this section;
      9.   Public construction contracts not exceeding the amount established
by State law, awarded by the City for the purpose of making any public
improvements or constructing any public building or making repairs to or
performing maintenance on the same. "Public improvement" as used in the
previous sentence shall mean any beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement or amelioration of or upon any real property, or
interest therein, belonging to a public agency, intended to enhance its value,
beauty or utility or to adapt it to new or further purposes. The term "public
improvement" does not include the direct purchase of materials, equipment or
supplies by a public agency or any personal property as defined in 62 Oklahoma
Statutes section 430.1B; or
      10.   Material or equipment needing repair when covered by a policy of
insurance where the repair does not exceed fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00).
   E.   Emergency Purchases:
      1.   An emergency condition is a situation which creates a threat to
public health, welfare or safety, such as may arise by reason of floods,
epidemics, riots, equipment failures, or such other reason as may be proclaimed
by the City Manager. The existence of such condition creates an immediate and
serious need for supplies, services or construction that cannot be met through
normal procurement methods and the lack of which would seriously threaten:
         a.   The function of the City government;
         b.   The preservation or protection of property; or
         c.   The health or safety of any persons.
      2.   The City Manager may make emergency procurements in accordance with
the purchasing policies when an emergency condition arises and the need cannot
be met through normal procurement methods. (2007 Code § 1-61; amd. 2019 Code;
Ord. 07102023-06, 7-10-2023)
3-1-3: INSURANCE:
   A.   The City Commission may insure City property, as authorized by Oklahoma
Statutes. Any money received as a result of destruction, damages or loss of
such insured property shall be accounted for, and used as provided by said
statutes.
   B.   The City Commission may purchase insurance to pay damages to persons
sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent operation
of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the City.
   C.   The City Commission may provide hospital, health and medical insurance,
through any company authorized to do business in Oklahoma, for any or all of
its officers or employees and their dependents, whether said officers or
employees are engaged in governmental or nongovernmental functions of the City.
The City Commission may pay a portion of all of said premiums from any City
funds, and may deduct from the wages or salary of any such officer or employee,
upon written authority signed by the officer or employee, amounts for the
payment of all or any portion of the monthly premium for same. (2007 Code § 1-
62)
3-1-4: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There is hereby created and established a Capital
Improvements Fund for the City which shall not be subject to fiscal operations.
   B.   Uses: The proceeds of said fund, together with any interest and
increments thereto, may, at the discretion of the City Commission, be used for
the following purposes only:
      1.   To meet principal and interest requirements on general obligation
bonds;
      2.   When general obligation bond requirements are met, to make cash
expenditures for capital improvements or equipment for street, electric, water,
storm drainage, or sewer purposes; or
      3.   Where transfers from said fund or any part thereof to a Sinking Fund
or other appropriate City or trust funds are necessary to accomplish such
purposes, the City Commission is authorized to make such transfer of funds.
(2007 Code § 1-63)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-2-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-2-5: Effective Date
3-2-6: Purpose Of Revenues
3-2-7: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
3-2-8: Exemptions From Tax
3-2-9: Due Date
3-2-10: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-2-11: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-2-12: Collection By Vendors
3-2-13: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-2-14: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-2-15: Erroneous Payment; Claim For Refund
3-2-16: Fraudulent Returns
3-2-17: Records Confidential
3-2-18: Amendments
3-2-19: Provisions Cumulative And Severable
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall constitute, shall be known and may be cited as, the CITY OF
WAURIKA, OKLAHOMA, SALES TAX ORDINANCE. (2007 Code § 1-80)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Generally: The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in
the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter 1 . (2007 Code § 1-81)
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "Tax Collector" as used herein means
the department of the City government or the official agency of the State duly
designated according to law, or contractually authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the tax herein levied. (2007 Code § 1-82)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1352.
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State Statutes for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code. (2007 Code § 1-83)
3-2-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional City permit for the same purpose. (2007 Code § 1-84)
3-2-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become and be effective, including its most current level on
hand, after February 5, 1979, subject to the approval of a majority of the
registered voters of the City voting on the same, in the manner prescribed by
Oklahoma Statutes. (2007 Code § 1-85)
3-2-6: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of all of the functions of the City government. (2007 Code § 1-86)
3-2-7: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of three percent (3%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code. (2007 Code § 1-87; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Exemptions from the Sales Tax levied in this chapter shall include all those
allowed under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. (2007 Code § 1-88; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-9: DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State Sales Tax under the Sales Tax Law
of the State of Oklahoma. (2007 Code § 1-90)
3-2-10: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the State Sales Tax under
the Sales Tax Law of Oklahoma.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the three percent (3%) City
Sales Tax by the Tax Collector, shall be the same as hereafter adopted by the
agreement of the City and the Tax Collector in the collection of both the three
percent (3%) City Sales Tax and the State Sales Tax. (2007 Code § 1-91)
3-2-11: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2007 Code § 1-92)
3-2-12: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the City to collect
from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter,
or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable by law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined herein, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
these provisions, or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising (verbally or otherwise) any
statement which infers that the vendor is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices, at a price including the
tax or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense. (2007
Code § 1-93)
3-2-13: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code; remittances
of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as may be
allowed by said code for collection of State Sales Tax. (2007 Code § 1-94)
3-2-14: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquencies: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, as amended, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the
rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this chapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit all claim
to any discount allowed under this chapter. (2007 Code § 1-95)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest, penalty or any portion
thereof, accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the City Sales Tax
herein levied, may be waived or remitted in the same manner provided for said
waiver or remittance, as applied in the administration of the State Sales Tax
provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220; to accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2007 Code § 1-96)
3-2-15: ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the City Sales Tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment, in the same manner and procedure
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
State sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and, to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2007 Code § 1-97)
3-2-16: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment or any tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due under this
chapter, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than the limits established in
section
1-10-21 of this Code. (2007 Code § 1-98)
3-2-17: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the City Sales Tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the State Sales Tax Code, as amended, and each subsection thereof, are hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the City Sales Tax, as if set forth herein in full. (2007 Code § 1-99)
3-2-18: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the City, by their approval of applicable ordinances at the
elections held concerning such ordinances, have authorized the City Commission,
by ordinances duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes
or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcement of this
chapter as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; provided,
that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval
of the qualified electors of the City, as provided by law. (2007 Code § 1-100)
3-2-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE AND SEVERABLE:
   A.   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of City ordinances.
   B.   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this chapter is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof. (2007
Code § 1-101)
CHAPTER 3
USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3-3: Subsisting State Permits
3-3-4: Purpose Of Revenues
3-3-5: Tax Levied; Transactions Subject To Tax
3-3-6: Exemptions
3-3-7: Due Date
3-3-8: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-3-9: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
3-3-10: Revocation Of Permit
3-3-11: Deductions Allowed Vendors Of Other States
3-3-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3-13: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-3-14: Fraudulent Returns
3-3-15: Records Confidential
3-3-16: Provisions Cumulative And Separable
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, as amended, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter; in addition thereto, the following
words and terms shall be defined as follows:
CITY: The City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the City or the official agency of the State,
duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the Use Tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (2007 Code § 1-124)
3-3-2: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
(2007 Code § 1-125)
3-3-3: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional City permit for the same purpose. (2007 Code § 1-126)
3-3-4: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the City government, and any and all revenues
derived hereunder may be expended by the City Commission for any purpose for
which funds may be lawfully expended and authorized. (2007 Code § 1-127)
3-3-5: TAX LEVIED; TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the City, tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the City, an Excise Tax on the storage, use or otherwise consuming
within the City of such property at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
purchase price of such property, pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code. (2007
Code § 1-110; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from the Use Tax levied in this chapter shall include all those
allowed under the Oklahoma Use Tax Code. (2007 Code § 1-111; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3-7: DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax under the Use Tax Code of
the State. (2007 Code § 1-112)
3-3-8: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty or interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as with any other debt. (2007 Code § 1-
113)
3-3-9: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   A.   Collection Of Tax: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the State of Oklahoma, and making sales of
tangible personal property from a place of business outside this State for use
in the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, shall, at the time of making such sales,
collect the Use Tax levied by this chapter from the purchaser and give to the
purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma
Tax Commission, if said Tax Commission shall, by regulation, require such
receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with said Tax Commission the name
and address of all his agents operating in the City and location of any and all
distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in the
City. (2007 Code § 1-114)
   B.   Vendors Maintaining Places Of Business Within And Outside State: The
Oklahoma Tax Commission may, at its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the Use Tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this State but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in this City, and by the out of State place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property at
such out of State place of business for use in this City. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by said
Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as
it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer
or vendor to collect the Use Tax upon all tangible personal property sold to
his knowledge for use within this City. Such authority and permit may be
canceled when, at any time, said Tax Commission considers that such Use Tax can
more effectively be collected from the person using such property in this City;
provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or completed
by delivery to the purchaser within this City by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
City Sales Tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under the taxpayer's Sales Tax permit number accordingly. (2007 Code §
1-115)
3-3-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
State, or both within and without this State, authorized to collect the Use Tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
Tax Commission, said Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided
for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, as amended, by order, revoke the Use
Tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer
or vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in this State, may, after
the notice and hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do
business in this State and shall issue a new license only when such corporation
has complied with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code, or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma Tax Commission. (2007
Code § 1-116)
3-3-11: DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the Use Tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the Oklahoma Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and
amount prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code; remittances of Use Taxes collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of State Use Taxes.
(2007 Code § 1-117)
3-3-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquency: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, as amended, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the
rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the Use Tax levied
by this chapter; provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or
vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of Use Tax in the time
and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In
addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the
retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this
chapter. (2007 Code § 1-118)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the Use Tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
State Use Tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, as amended; to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2007 Code § 1-119; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the Municipal Use Tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time provided for administration of the State
Use Tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, as amended; to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2007 Code § 1-120)
3-3-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any Use Tax, or portion thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed the limits established
in section
1-10-21 of this Code. (2007 Code § 1-121)
3-3-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the Municipal Use Tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205, as amended, of the State Use Tax Code, and each subsection
thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to administration of the Municipal Use Tax, as if herein set forth
in full. (2007 Code § 1-122)
3-3-16: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE AND SEPARABLE:
   A.   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of City ordinances.
   B.   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be separable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this chapter is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof. (2007
Code § 1-123)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Applications
4-1-2: Persons Subject To License
4-1-3: Forms
4-1-4: Signatures
4-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
4-1-6: Term Of License
4-1-7: Posting License
4-1-8: Building And Premises
4-1-9: Change Of Location
4-1-10: Nuisances
4-1-11: Misrepresentation Of Weights And Measures
4-1-12: Sale Of Merchandise On Vacant Property
4-1-13: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
4-1-14: Penalty
4-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk or his designee, unless otherwise specifically
provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered
and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be required by the issuing official. (2019 Code)
4-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to this
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the City. (2019 Code)
4-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk. (2019 Code)
4-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the City Clerk or his
designee in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (2019 Code)
4-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where laws of the
City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. (2019 Code)
4-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31, where no provision to the
contrary is made. (2019 Code)
4-1-7: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City
to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business, or to carry such license on his person if there is no
premises on which to display such license. (2019 Code)
4-1-8: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the City. (2019 Code)
4-1-9: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the City Clerk; and further provided,
that there is compliance with the building requirements of this Code. (2019
Code)
4-1-10: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2019 Code)
4-1-11: MISREPRESENTATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
   A.   With regard to food, fuel, clothing, or any other service or commodity,
it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
      1.   Sell, offer, or expose for sale any food, fuel, clothing, or any
other commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much, according to
standard weights or measures of the State of Oklahoma, as the weight or measure
for which it is sold or offered for sale, or in a quantity less than the
quantity represented; or
      2.   Take more than the represented weight or quantity when, as a buyer,
the person furnishes the weight or measure by means of which the quantity is
determined; or
      3.   Represent the weight or quantity in any manner calculated or tending
to mislead or in any way deceive another person; or
      4.   Misrepresent the price of any commodity or service sold, offered,
exposed, or advertised for sale by weight, measure, or count, or represent the
price in any manner calculated or tending to mislead or in any way deceive a
person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a store to charge a retail price for any
consumer item which exceeds the lowest then price in that store, whether a
shelf, sale, advertised, or otherwise publicly communicated price, of the
consumer item. (2007 Code § 5-62; amd. 2019 Code)
4-1-12: SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, trade or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of said property. (2007 Code § 5-60)
4-1-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   City Authority: Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the City Commission, after adequate opportunity for a hearing,
during the life of such license or permit. Such revocation may be in addition
to any fine imposed. The City Commission shall be authorized to summarily order
the cessation of business, the closing of the premises, and the suspension of
any business license or permit for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under this
Code or the ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked
by the City Commission after notice and hearing for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of this Code, ordinance
provisions or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter
of the license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this Code. (2019 Code)
4-1-14: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code, and is subject to revocation of any license. Each day
upon which a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits issued under the
provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm or corporation in violation of
said provisions. (2007 Code § 5-100)
ARTICLE A. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Pawnbrokers
4-1A-2: Pool, Billiard And Other Recreational Halls; Amusement Devices
4-1A-3: Shooting Galleries
4-1A-4: Junkyards And Salvage Yards
4-1A-1: PAWNBROKERS:
   A.   License Fee: Each and every person engaged in the business of
pawnbroker or person engaged in the business of making loans on pledges of
chattels or personal property shall, before the exercise of the occupation, pay
a license fee in the amount provided in the fee schedule expiring on December
31 of each year.
   B.   Register Of Transactions:
      1.   Register Required: Every pawnbroker shall keep at his place of
business a register in which he shall enter in writing a minute description of
all property taken, purchased or received by him, including any number that may
be in stock of such article or articles, together with the time and the name
and place of residence (giving street and number, if within the City) of the
person leaving the property, also the amount loaned, the interest charged and
the time when the loan falls due. The register shall be kept clean, in good
order and plainly legible. He shall make such entries within one hour after the
receipt or purchase of any and all such property.
      2.   Entries In Register:
         a.   Every entry shall be made in the register in ink and shall not in
any manner be obliterated or erased. The pawnbroker shall give a plainly
written or printed ticket to the person negotiating or leaving such property,
having upon it a full and perfect copy of all the entries required by ordinance
to be kept in such register for which a copy at no charge shall be made. Upon
demand, a copy shall also be furnished to the Police Department. It shall be
the further duty of each and every pawnbroker to make out and deliver to the
Chief of Police on each and every day, before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon, a legible and correct copy from the register of all personal property
or other valuable things received or deposited or purchased and a description
of the person or persons by whom left in pledge or from whom the same was
purchased.
         b.   No person shall be required to furnish such description of any
property purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers having an
established place of business or of any goods purchased at open sale or from
any bankrupt stock or from any other person having an established place of
business. Such goods shall be accompanied by a bill of sale or other written
evidence of open and legitimate purchase and shall be exhibited to any public
officer when demanded.
      3.   Register Inspection: The register, so kept by the person, shall at
all times be open to the inspection of the police of the City and the Sheriff
or Deputy Sheriffs of the County, or by any person authorized in writing for
that purpose by any of such officers, which authority shall be exhibited to the
pawnbroker. The pawnbroker shall, upon request, show and exhibit to such person
or officer, for inspection, any article purchased, taken or received by him,
unless the time of the pledge has expired and the goods sold and delivered to
the purchaser.
   C.   Hours Of Business: No pawnbroker shall purchase, receive, or take on
deposit from any person, any article of property between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; and their places of business
shall remain closed all day Sunday and on the following legal holidays: New
Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents Day (third Monday in February),
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day (November
11), Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   D.   Suspicious Circumstances: Any suspicious circumstances, sufficient to
put any ordinarily prudent person upon his guard, shall be sufficient notice to
the pawnbroker or person making loans on pledged chattels or purchasing the
same that the property involved or tendered is or may be stolen property. Any
knowledge, notice, or information as to the improper character of the person
offering chattels in pledge shall in each case require positive proof of the
holder's right to dispose of the property.
   E.   Operation In Violation Of State Law: No person shall operate a pawnshop
in violation of any Oklahoma State law pursuant to 21 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 1092 and 1093, as amended, also 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1501
through 1531, as amended, which are hereby incorporated into this Code with the
same force and effect as if fully set out in this section. (2019 Code)
4-1A-2: POOL, BILLIARD AND OTHER RECREATIONAL HALLS; AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   Employment Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager or
operator to employ or permit any minor (as defined by current State law) to
work in a pool, billiard, domino or card hall or parlor; it shall be unlawful
for any minor (as defined by current State law) to work in such a hall or
parlor. (2007 Code § 5-63)
   B.   Allowing Minors To Loiter On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
person in charge of any hall or parlor mentioned in subsection A of this
section to permit any minor (as defined by current State law) to loiter in such
a hall or parlor, or to play games therein, unless he is accompanied by a
parent or guardian. It shall be unlawful for such minor to loiter in such a
hall or parlor, or to play games therein unless he is accompanied by a parent
or guardian. (2007 Code § 5-63; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Gambling; Disorderly Conduct: It shall be unlawful for the owner,
manager or operator of a pool, snooker, billiard, domino or card hall or
parlor, or bowling alley to permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a
lottery, sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor, disorderly
conduct, loud or disturbing language, noise, loud music, profane language or
any other violation of State laws or this Code.
   D.   Exception, Family Centers: Subsections A, B and C of this section shall
not, however, apply to establishments created as family entertainment and
recreation centers for the use and enjoyment of the entire family (regardless
of age). It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a
family center to permit the sale, furnishing or drinking of alcoholic beverages
of any type.
   E.   Coin-Operated Devices; Amusements:
      1.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation, either as
principal or agent, shall own, operate, lease or permit to be operated on the
business premises of such person, firm or corporation, any form of coin-
operated machine or other device intended for the use of, or used by, persons
patronizing such business for such persons' amusement or entertainment,
including, but not limited to, bowling machines, shuffleboards, pinball and
associated similar machines, and music playing machines commonly called juke
boxes, without first paying to the City Clerk the license fee hereinafter
prescribed and procuring a license therefor. (2007 Code § 5-63)
      2.   License Fee:
         a.   The license fee prescribed herein shall be, unless otherwise
specified on the face of the license, an annual license fee and shall expire on
December 31 of the year for which it is issued. No license shall be issued
until the amount prescribed therefor has been paid in full to the City Clerk.
All licenses procured under the provisions of this section shall be prominently
displayed on, or in the immediate vicinity and in clear view of, the machine
for which is was purchased. Licenses shall be signed by the City Clerk, who
shall affix the Corporate Seal of the City thereto. (2007 Code § 5-63; amd.
2019 Code)
         b.   The license fee imposed in subsection E2a of this section shall
be five dollars ($5.00) per year, per machine or shuffleboard. Licenses issued
for a period of six (6) months or less shall cost two dollars fifty cents
($2.50) per machine or shuffleboard. (2007 Code § 5-63)
4-1A-3: SHOOTING GALLERIES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: Every shooting gallery constructed,
established, set up or operated hereafter, either permanently or temporarily,
within the corporate limits of the City shall be constructed, established, set
up and operated in accordance with the standards, specifications and
requirements of 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 701 through 708, as amended, and
shall comply with all the requirements thereof.
   B.   Local License: No shooting gallery shall be operated until any licenses
required by this Code have been secured therefor. (2007 Code § 5-61)
4-1A-4: JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the terms "junkyard" or
"salvage yard" shall mean any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard; said terms shall
also include garbage dumps and sanitary landfills.
   B.   Location Near Right-Of-Way: No junkyard or salvage yard shall be
located nearer than fifty feet (50') from the right- of-way.
   C.   Screening View From Highway; Fencing: All junkyards or salvage yards
shall be screened from view of any road or highway running adjacent thereto, by
the construction of a sightproof fence with a minimum height of at least eight
feet (8'), or such material as may be approved by the City Commission, or by
the planting of appropriately sized shrubbery.
   D.   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: No junkyard or salvage yard shall be
operated in such a manner as to cause the creation of a public nuisance to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the surrounding areas. (2007
Code § 5-65)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Possession Of Unauthorized Intoxicating Beverages
4-2-3: Loitering On Premises Where Sold
4-2-4: Keeping, Maintaining Place Of Sale In Violation Of Laws
4-2-5: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
4-2-6: Employees Soliciting Patrons To Purchase Beverages For Employees
4-2-7: Nudity In Licensed Business Or Establishment
4-2-8: Certificates Of Compliance Required; Issuance
4-2-9: Location Of Licensed Establishments
4-2-10: Prohibited Acts By Persons
4-2-11: Prohibited Acts By Licensees
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section.
Additional definitions contained within the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act not contained herein are incorporated into this chapter by reference. Words
in the plural include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting the
masculine gender include the feminine, as well as persons and licensees as
defined in this section.
ABLE COMMISSION OR COMMISSION: The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission.
ALCOHOL: Hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does not include wood
alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as denatured in
accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are defined
herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
human beings.
APPLICANT: Any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any
individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold
any license issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.
BEER: Any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or
similar products. "Beer" may or may not contain hops or other vegetable
products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as
Japanese rice wine.
BEER DISTRIBUTOR: Any person licensed to distribute beer for retail sale in the
State, but does not include a holder of a small brewer self-distribution
license or brewpub self- distribution license. The term "distributor", as used
in this chapter, shall be construed to refer to a beer distributor.
BEER KEG: Any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not less than
four (4) gallons of beer.
BOTTLE CLUB: Any establishment in a county which has not authorized the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is required to be
licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to club members
on club premises.
BREWER: Any person who manufactures for human consumption by the use of raw
materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license fee and a tax are
imposed by any law of this State.
BREWPUB: A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on premises
located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food and
beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any person primarily engaged in retailing a limited range of
general household items and groceries, with extended hours of operation,
whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in combination with
such sales.
CONVICTED AND CONVICTION: A finding of guilt resulting from a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere, the decision of a court or Magistrate or the verdict of a
jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of judgment or the suspension thereof.
DISTILLER: Any person who produces spirits from any source or substance, or any
person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for distillation or for the
production of spirits (except a person making or using such material in the
authorized production of wine or beer, or the production of vinegar by
fermentation), or any person who by any process separates alcoholic spirits
from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or keeping mash, wort
or wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
DRUGSTORE: A person primarily engaged in retailing prescription and
nonprescription drugs and medicines.
GROCERY STORE: A person primarily engaged in retailing a general line of food,
such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh and
prepared meats, fish and poultry.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: An establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages
by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations with
respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the occupants
thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of innkeeper and
guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal relationships
as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall be
immaterial.
LEGAL NEWSPAPER: A newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in 25 Oklahoma Statutes sections 101
through 114.
LICENSEE: Any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while in the
performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business or on
the licensed premises.
MANUFACTURER: A brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of any
alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent companies.
MANUFACTURER'S AGENT: A salaried or commissioned salesperson who is the agent
authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or nonresident seller in the
State.
MEALS: Foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least part of which is
cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining implements for
consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as appetizers,
sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered "meals".
MINI-BAR: A closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part, or
nonrefrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
   A.   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device; or
   B.   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
MIXED BEVERAGES: One or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or part
of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal size
for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a mixed
beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or special
event license.
MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An establishment which is licensed by 37A Oklahoma
Statutes section 2-110 to sell alcoholic beverages by the individual drink and
where motion pictures are exhibited, and to which the general public is
admitted.
NONRESIDENT SELLER: Any person licensed pursuant to 37A Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-135.
OCCUPATION: As used in connection with "Occupation Tax", means the sites
occupied as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers, beer
distributors, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, on-premises beer and wine
licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event licensees.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any container of alcoholic beverage filled and stamped or
sealed by the manufacturer.
PACKAGE STORE: Any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell wine,
beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a grocery
store, convenience store or drugstore, or other retail outlet that is not
permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
PATRON: Any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a licensee or
who is not a licensee.
PERSON: An individual, any type of partnership, corporation, association,
limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal structure of
any such business entity.
PREMISES: The grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to the
grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect control
of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the licensee
and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered by a
license. Provided, that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
   A.   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by private
parties which are closed to the general public; or
   B.   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages provided
by a private party.
This exception shall in no way limit the licensee's concurrent responsibility
for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act occurring on
the licensed premises.
PRIVATE EVENT: A social gathering or event attended by invited guests who share
a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior established
relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for general public
attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not constitute a
private event.
PUBLIC EVENT: Any event that can be attended by the general public.
REGULATION OR RULE: A formal rule of general application promulgated by the
ABLE Commission as herein required.
RESTAURANT: An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by
the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is prepared and
sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES: An original package of any capacity
approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
RETAIL SALESPERSON: A salesperson soliciting orders from and calling upon
retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her product.
RETAILER: A package store, grocery store, convenience store or drugstore
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off- premises consumption pursuant to
a retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer license.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term "sale" is
also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this State of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this State, upon
which the Excise Tax levied by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has
not been paid or exempted.
SPECIAL EVENT: An entertainment, recreation or marketing event that occurs at a
single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic beverages are
sold.
SPIRITS: Any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more than one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol measured by volume, and obtained by
distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in solution and
includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs,
cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds, but shall not include any
alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts of Congress and
regulations pursuant thereto.
WINE: Any beverage containing more than one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
alcohol by volume and not more than twenty four percent (24%) alcohol by volume
at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or other products containing sugar,
whether or not other ingredients are added, and includes vermouth and sake,
known as Japanese rice wine.
WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER OR WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR: Any sole
proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and spirits in the
State. The term "wholesaler", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to
refer to a wine and spirits wholesaler. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-
1-2018)
4-2-2: POSSESSION OF UNAUTHORIZED INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful for any person to have in their possession or under their
control any alcohol of any kind except as authorized by law. (Ord. 09102018-02,
9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-3: LOITERING ON PREMISES WHERE SOLD:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where alcohol of any kind
is bartered, sold, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law. (Ord.
09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-4: KEEPING, MAINTAINING PLACE OF SALE IN VIOLATION OF LAWS:
It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or aid or abet in keeping or
maintaining, in the City a place where alcohol is manufactured, sold, bartered,
given away or otherwise furnished in violation of this Code. (Ord. 09102018-02,
9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-5: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley within the corporate limits of
the City any alcoholic beverage except in the original container which shall
not have been opened and the seal upon which shall not have been broken and
from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the
open container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, or any outside
compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in said
vehicle while it is in motion.
   B.   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-6: EMPLOYEES SOLICITING PATRONS TO PURCHASE BEVERAGES FOR EMPLOYEES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, owner, manager, or employee of
any business or establishment licensed pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act contained in 37A Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended, to permit an employee to solicit a patron to purchase an alcoholic or
nonalcoholic beverage for the employee or any other employee, or knowingly to
serve any employee with a beverage purchased by a patron or permit any employee
to remain on the licensed premises who solicits a patron to purchase a beverage
for any employee or to solicit a patron to purchase a beverage for himself or
herself or for any person not a patron, or to permit an employee to mingle or
fraternize with patrons of such licensed business or establishment, except in
the furtherance of service of food and/or drinks.
   B.   Any licensee, owner, manager, or employee of a licensed business or
establishment who violates any provision of this section is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), excluding costs. (Ord. 09102018-02,
9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-7: NUDITY IN LICENSED BUSINESS OR ESTABLISHMENT:
No owner, operator, partner, manager or person having supervisory control of
any establishment licensed to sell or serve intoxicating beverages shall permit
any of the following on or about any commercial premises where intoxicating
beverages are dispensed or consumed:
   A.   The performance by any person of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual
intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or
any sexual acts which are otherwise prohibited by law;
   B.   The actual intentional touching or caressing or fondling by any person
of the breasts, anus or genitals;
   C.   Any person on the licensed premises while such person is unclothed or
in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the
areola of the female breast or any portion of the pubic hair, buttocks or
genitals; or
   D.   Any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate, sexual acts
which are prohibited by law, or permit any person to use artificial devices or
inanimate objects to depict any prohibited activities or permit the showing of
films, still pictures, electronic reproductions or other visual reproductions
depicting any of the prohibited activities described in this subsection. (Ord.
09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-8: CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Required; Application; Fee:
      1.   Every applicant for an original or renewal license, as required
under 37 Oklahoma Statutes, except applicants for a special event, shall be
required to furnish the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission a
certificate of compliance with Zoning, Fire, Safety and Health Codes.
      2.   Applications for such certificates shall be in writing on a form
provided by the City Clerk. Each applicant shall pay at the time of filing the
application a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon receipt of an application for
a certificate of compliance, the City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be
made to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply
with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and any Health, Fire, Building and
other Safety Codes applicable to it.
      3.   The City Clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof.
   B.   Issuance:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Zoning Ordinances, the Planning and Zoning
Department shall provide approval of zoning compliance on the certificate that
shall be issued to the applicant.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety, and Health Codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the applicant.
      3.   The above certificate of compliance shall be signed by the City
Clerk or the City Clerk's designee. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
4-2-9: LOCATION OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Location Near School Or Church: It shall be unlawful for any mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club which has
been licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or
package store, to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any public or
private school or church property primarily and regularly used for worship
services and religious activities.
   B.   Distance Determination: The distance indicated in this section shall be
measured from the nearest property line of such public or private school or
church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which
has been permitted by the City to sell alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments or
bottle clubs which have been permitted by the City to sell alcoholic beverages
for on-premises consumption or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000;
provided, that if at the time of application for an Occupational Tax permit
renewal the previously permitted location has not been in actual operation for
a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days, the permit shall not be
renewed; or
         b.   Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-
point beer which were permitted to be located within three hundred feet (300')
of any public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used
for worship services and religious activities, pursuant to the provisions of 37
Oklahoma Statutes section 163.27. Such establishments shall be permitted to
have any license in effect on October 1, 2018, transferred to a mixed beverage
license by the ABLE Commission and would thereafter be eligible to apply for an
Occupational Tax permit with the City pursuant to this chapter; provided, that
if such an establishment ceases to regularly be open to the public or changes
ownership, the provisions of this subsection shall cease to apply.
      2.   If any school or church shall be established within three hundred
feet (300') of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after
such package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club has been granted an Occupational Tax permit by the City, the
provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such
permit if there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. When any
mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club
subject to the provisions of this section which has been granted an
Occupational Tax permit by the City to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption, or package store, changes ownership or the operator thereof is
changed and such change of ownership results in the same type of business being
conducted on the premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a
deterrent to the issuance of such a permit to the new owner or operator if he
or she is otherwise qualified. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS BY PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to any person
less than twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Sell, deliver, or knowingly furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient.
   C.   Open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises
of a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drugstore, unless
otherwise permitted by law.
   D.   Import into the State, except as provided for in the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, any alcoholic beverages; provided, that nothing herein
shall prohibit the importation or possession for personal use of not more than
one liter (1 L) of alcoholic beverages upon which the Oklahoma Excise Tax is
delinquent.
   E.   Receive, possess or use any alcoholic beverage in violation of the
provisions of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   F.   Transport into, within or through the State more than one liter of
alcoholic beverages upon which the Oklahoma Excise Tax has not been paid unless
the person accompanying or in charge of the vehicle transporting same shall
possess a true copy of a bill of lading, invoice, manifest or other document
particularly identifying the alcoholic beverages being transported and showing
the name and address of the consignor and consignee; provided, this prohibition
shall not apply to the first one hundred eighty liters (180 L) of alcoholic
beverages classified as household goods by military personnel, age twenty one
(21) or older, when entering Oklahoma from temporary active assignment outside
the contiguous United States.
   G.   Knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a public highway, street or
alley any alcoholic beverage except in the original container which shall not
have been opened and the seal upon which shall not have been broken and from
which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the opened
container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the
spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known as a station wagon or panel
truck, or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any
other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   H.   Consume spirits in public except on the premises of a licensee of the
ABLE Commission who is authorized to sell or serve spirits by the individual
drink, or be intoxicated in a public place. This provision shall be cumulative
and in addition to existing law.
   I.   Forcibly resist lawful arrest, or by physical contact interfere with an
investigation of any infringement of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act or with any lawful search or seizure being made by a law enforcement
officer or an employee of the ABLE Commission, when such person knows or should
know that such acts are being performed by a State, County or Municipal officer
or employee of the ABLE Commission.
   J.   Manufacture, duplicate, counterfeit or in any way imitate any bottle
club membership card required to be issued by the ABLE Commission without the
permission of the ABLE Commission.
   K.   Consume or possess alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises of a
bottle club unless such person possesses a valid membership card for that club
issued by the club.
   L.   Knowingly possess any bottle club membership card required to be issued
by the ABLE Commission which has been manufactured, counterfeited, imitated or
in any way duplicated without the permission of the ABLE Commission.
   M.   Knowingly and wilfully permit any individual under twenty one (21)
years of age who is an invitee to the person's residence, any building,
structure or room owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person
or on any land owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person, to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage as defined in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, any controlled dangerous substance as defined in the
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, or any combination thereof, in
such place.
   N.   No person who shall engage in any of the following and disturb the
peace of any person:
      1.   In any public place, or in or upon any passenger coach, streetcar,
or in or upon any other vehicle commonly used for the transportation of
passengers, or in or about any depot, platform, waiting station or room, drink
or otherwise consume any intoxicating liquor unless authorized by this chapter,
intoxicating substance or intoxicating compound of any kind, or inhale glue,
paint or other intoxicating substance;
      2.   Be drunk or intoxicated on any public or private road, or in any
passenger coach, streetcar or any public place or building, or at any public
gathering, from drinking or consuming such intoxicating liquor, intoxicating
substance or intoxicating compound or from inhalation of glue, paint or other
intoxicating substance; or
      3.   Be drunk or intoxicated from any cause. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS BY LICENSEES:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of the ABLE Commission within the
corporate limits of the City to:
   A.   Receive, possess or sell any alcoholic beverage except as authorized by
the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and by the license or permit which
the licensee holds.
   B.   Employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age in the selling of
beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age in the
selling of spirits; provided, that:
      1.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special
event, bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or
sales clerks who are at least eighteen (18) years of age, except persons under
twenty one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas;
and
      2.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special
event or bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have
musicians who are under eighteen (18) years of age if each such musician is
either accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be
made available for inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE
Commission or law enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the
parent or legal guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in
designated bar or lounge areas.
   C.   Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or consideration for
any lottery, game of chance or skill or any type of competition.
   D.   Use any of the following means or inducements to stimulate the
consumption of alcoholic beverages, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time.
      2.   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any drinks
at a price that is less than six percent (6%) below the markup of the cost to
the mixed beverage licensee; provided, that a mixed beverage licensee shall be
permitted to offer these drink specials on any particular hour of any
particular day and shall not be required to offer these drink specials for an
entire calendar week or from open to close.
      3.   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public.
      4.   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons on
any one day or portion thereof at prices less than those charged the general
public on that day, except at private functions not open to the public.
      5.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week.
      6.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
The provisions of this subsection D shall not prohibit the advertising or
offering of food or entertainment in licensed establishments.
   E.   Permit or allow any patron or person to exit the licensed premises with
an open container of any alcoholic beverage. Provided, this prohibition shall
not be applicable to closed original containers of alcoholic beverages which
are carried from the licensed premises of a bottle club by a patron, closed
original wine containers removed from the premises of restaurants, hotels and
motels, or to closed original containers of alcoholic beverages transported to
and from the place of business of a licensed caterer by the caterer or an
employee of the caterer.
   F.   Serve or sell alcoholic beverages with an expired license issued by the
ABLE Commission.
   G.   Permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated on the licensee's licensed
premises.
   H.   Furnish alcoholic beverages to any person during any hours or days not
authorized under the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2-12: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided by State law, whenever in this chapter an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or a misdemeanor,
or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, the violation of any provision of this Code or of any
ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00), plus costs. Each day or any portion of a day during
which any violation of this chapter or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
ARTICLE A. OCCUPATIONAL TAX; SALES FOR ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Occupational Tax Levied
4-2A-2: Payment Required And Penalty
4-2A-3: Annual Report
4-2A-4: Hours Of Operation
4-2A-5: Employment
4-2A-6: Mixed Beverage/Caterer Combination Permit
4-2A-7: Special Event Temporary Permit
4-2A-8: Breweries And Brewpubs
4-2A-9: Revocation Of License
4-2A-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED:
No person shall operate or maintain any business serving mixed beverages or
beer or wine without having previously paid the annual Occupational Tax. The
Occupational Tax shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Board of
City Commissioners. City personnel, subject to such direction as the Board of
City Commissioners may give by resolution may reduce or increase the annual
Municipal Occupational Tax. (Ord. 04082019-01, 4-8-2019; amd. Ord. 06082020-13,
6-8-2020)
4-2A-2: PAYMENT REQUIRED AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any State licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of City Clerk on or before the
date upon which he enters upon such occupation. Said licensee shall provide a
copy of a current State license before payment of an Occupation Tax will be
accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax annually on or before
January 1.
   B.   The Occupation Tax subject to this section shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation began operations.
   C.   Upon payment of the said Occupation Tax, the City Clerk shall issue a
receipt to said State licensee, which said licensee shall post in a conspicuous
place on the occupation premises to exhibit that said licensee is permitted by
the City to enter upon such occupation on said premises.
   D.   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter
without paying said Occupation Tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation, is guilty of an offense against the City and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined the sum of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), excluding costs. Each day of such violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 11132018-04, 11-12-2018)
4-2A-3: ANNUAL REPORT:
The City Clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
Occupation Tax and the amount of money collected from said tax. (Ord. 09102018-
02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No establishment to which the mixed beverage or on-premises beer and wine
Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
4-2A-5: EMPLOYMENT:
No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age in the
selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age
in the selling of spirits; provided, that:
   A.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event,
bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or sales
clerks who are at least eighteen (18) years of age, except persons under twenty
one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas; and
   B.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event
or bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands which have musicians
who are under eighteen (18) years of age if each such musician is either
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be made
available for inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or
law enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or
legal guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated
bar or lounge areas. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-6: MIXED BEVERAGE/CATERER COMBINATION PERMIT:
A mixed beverage/caterer combination Occupational Tax permit shall authorize
the holder thereof to purchase or sell mixed beverages as specified by law for
the holder of a mixed beverage license or a caterer license. A separate permit
shall be required for each place of business. Prior to obtaining a City
Occupational Tax permit, a mixed beverage/caterer combination license must be
issued by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission. (Ord. 09102018-
02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-7: SPECIAL EVENT TEMPORARY PERMIT:
A special event temporary permit may be issued to an organization, association,
or nonprofit corporation organized for political, fraternal, charitable,
religious or social purposes. The holder of a special event temporary permit is
authorized to sell and distribute alcoholic beverages on the premises for which
the permit is issued. A special event temporary permit shall be valid for a
period not to exceed ten (10) consecutive days, and no qualified organization
may obtain more than one such permit in a 90-day period. Prior to obtaining a
City Occupational Tax permit, a special event license must be issued by the
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-8: BREWERIES AND BREWPUBS:
   A.   No person shall operate or maintain a brewery or brewpub without having
previously paid the Occupational Tax as provided in this chapter.
   B.   No brewery or brewpub to which the brewery or brewpub Occupational Tax
is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such establishment shall
sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any beer, as that term is defined
in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103(5), on the premises between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any person having an Occupational Tax permit as provided for herein is
convicted more than once of a violation of the terms hereof, said permit may be
revoked by the Board of City Commissioners. Furthermore, if any person having a
license as provided for in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act is convicted more
than once of a violation of the terms hereof, said license may be revoked as
provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
ARTICLE B. RETAIL STORES; OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Occupational Tax Levied
4-2B-2: Payment Required And Penalty
4-2B-3: Deliveries
4-2B-4: Duty Of Operators And Prohibited Conduct On Sales Premises
4-2B-5: Hours Of Operation
4-2B-6: Employment
4-2B-7: Revocation Of License
4-2B-8: Enforcement; Penalty
4-2B-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED:
No person shall operate, manage, or work in any retail establishment that
sells, for off-premises consumption only, any type of alcoholic beverage, as
that term is found in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103 without having
previously paid the Occupational Tax as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2B-2: PAYMENT REQUIRED AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any State licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of the City Clerk on or before
the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. Said licensee shall provide
a copy of a current State license before payment of an Occupation Tax will be
accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax annually on or before
January 1.
   B.   The Occupation Tax subject to this section shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation began operations.
   C.   Upon payment of the said Occupation Tax, the City Clerk shall issue a
receipt to said State licensee, which said licensee shall post in a conspicuous
place on the occupation premises to exhibit that said licensee is permitted by
the City to enter upon such occupation on said premises.
   D.   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter
without paying said Occupation Tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation, is guilty of an offense against the City and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined the sum of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), excluding costs. Each day of such violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 11132018-04, 11-12-2018)
4-2B-3: DELIVERIES:
No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell or deliver to any retail
spirits store any alcoholic beverages on Sundays, New Year's Day, Fourth of
July, Thanksgiving, or Christmas Day. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
4-2B-4: DUTY OF OPERATORS AND PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON SALES PREMISES:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person operating any retail
establishment that sells, for off-premises consumption only, any type of
alcoholic beverage, to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to loiter in or be in such a place, or to permit any intoxicated person to loaf
or loiter or be in or about said place of business, or to permit any person to
violate any of the laws of the State. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
4-2B-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Retail Spirits Stores: No retail spirits store may sell any alcoholic
beverages at any hour other than between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Monday through Saturday. Further, no person
shall open or operate a retail spirits store on the following days:
      1.   Thanksgiving Day.
      2.   Christmas Day.
   B.   Retail Beer Or Retail Wine Stores: A retail wine or retail beer
establishment may offer wine or beer for sale on Monday through Sunday between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following
day, Monday through Sunday. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2B-6: EMPLOYMENT:
No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age in the
selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age
in the selling of spirits. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2B-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any person having an Occupational Tax permit as provided for herein is
convicted more than once of a violation of the terms hereof, said permit may be
revoked by the Board of City Commissioners. Furthermore, if any person having a
license as provided for in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act is convicted more
than once of a violation of the terms hereof, said license may be revoked as
provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2B-8: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   The Police Department is authorized and empowered to enforce the
provisions of this article. The provisions shall be enforced in a manner that
can reasonably be expected to reduce the extent to which alcohol is sold or
distributed to persons under twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Persons under twenty one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in enforcement. Provided, however, that such
persons may be used to test compliance only if the testing is conducted under
the direct supervision of the Police Department; provided, that written
parental consent shall be obtained prior to the use of any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years. Any other use of persons under twenty one (21) years of
age to test compliance shall be unlawful and punishable by assessment of an
administrative fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 09102018-02, 9-10-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 3
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Business License Required; General Provisions
4-3-3: Operational And Business Plan Requirements
4-3-4: Medical Marijuana Dispensary Requirements
4-3-5: Commercial Medical Marijuana Grower Requirements
4-3-6: Medical Marijuana Processor Requirements
4-3-7: Medical Marijuana Testing Requirements
4-3-8: Medical Marijuana Education And/Or Research Facility Requirements
4-3-9: Medical Marijuana Waste Disposal Requirements
4-3-10: Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Use
4-3-11: Approval, Issuance, Denial And Appeal
4-3-12: Additional Regulations
4-3-13: Prohibited Acts
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined as set forth for use in this chapter:
                                      A current and valid business license for
                                      a medical marijuana dispensary,
                                      commercial grower, marijuana processor,
                                      marijuana laboratory, marijuana
BUSINESS LICENSE:                     educational facility or marijuana
                                      testing facility issued under this
                                      chapter, which shall be granted to a
                                      business license holder only for and
                                      limited to a specific permitted premises
                                      and specific permitted property.
                                      The person that holds a current and
BUSINESS LICENSE HOLDER:              valid business license issued under this
                                      chapter.
                                      A person that has been issued a medical
                                      marijuana license pursuant to 63
                                      Oklahoma Statutes sections 420 et seq.,
CAREGIVER:                            as promulgated through the Oklahoma
                                      Medical Marijuana Authority, or
                                      successor agency, section 310:681-1-1,
                                      chapter 681 et. seq., as amended from
                                      time to time.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
                                      pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
COMMERCIAL GROWER:                    422, which allows the entity to grow,
                                      harvest, and dry medical marijuana for
                                      the purpose of selling medical marijuana
                                      to a dispensary, processor, or
                                      researcher.
COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL LICENSE:    A license issued to a medical marijuana
                                      waste disposal entity.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
                                      pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
                                      423 which allows the entity to purchase
                                      marijuana from a commercial grower;
MARIJUANA PROCESSOR:                  prepare, manufacture, package, sell to
                                      and deliver medical marijuana products
                                      to a dispensary licensee or other
                                      processor licensee; and may process
                                      marijuana received from a qualified
                                      patient into a medical marijuana
                                      concentrate, for a fee.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
                                      pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:         421 which allows the entity to purchase
                                      medical marijuana from a commercial
                                      grower or processor and sell medical
                                      marijuana only to qualified patients and
                                      caregivers.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
                                      pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
MEDICAL MARIJUANA EDUCATION FACILITY: 427.20 which allows a person to possess
                                      or cultivate marijuana for limited
                                      education and research purposes
                                      identified by law.
                                      A medical marijuana dispensary, medical
                                      marijuana commercial grower, medical
                                      marijuana processor, medical marijuana
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT:      laboratory testing facility, medical
                                      marijuana education facility, medical
                                      marijuana research facility, or medical
                                      marijuana waste disposal facility, all
                                      of which are established by law.
                                      The business license from the City for a
                                      medical marijuana dispensary, medical
                                      marijuana commercial grower, medical
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT       marijuana processor, medical marijuana
BUSINESS LICENSE:                     laboratory testing facility, medical
                                      marijuana education facility, medical
                                      marijuana research facility, or medical
                                      marijuana waste disposal facility, all
                                      of which are established by law.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
MEDICAL MARIJUANA RESEARCH FACILITY:  pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
                                      427.19 which allows a person to possess
                                      or cultivate marijuana for limited
                                      research purposes identified by law.
                                      An entity that is licensed by the
                                      Oklahoma State Department of Health
                                      pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
MEDICAL MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY:   427.17 which allows a person to possess
                                      medical marijuana for the purpose of
                                      conducting mandatory testing that is
                                      required by law.
                                      A license issued by the Oklahoma State
MEDICAL MARIJUANA WASTE DISPOSAL      Department of Health pursuant to the
LICENSE:                              Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Waste
                                      Management Act set forth in 63 Oklahoma
                                      Statutes sections 427a et. seq.
                                      The particular building or buildings
                                      within which the business license holder
                                      will be authorized to conduct the
                                      facility's activities pursuant to the
PERMITTED PREMISES:                   business license. Permitted property
                                      means the real property comprised of a
                                      lot, parcel, or other designated unit of
                                      real property upon which the permitted
                                      premises is situated.
                                      As used herein includes a business
PERSON:                               entity whether corporation, limited
                                      liability company, partnership, or
                                      otherwise.
STRUCTURE:                            An enclosed building with walls that is
                                      affixed to the ground.
                                      A person that has been issued a medical
                                      marijuana license pursuant to 63
QUALIFIED PATIENT:                    Oklahoma Statutes sections 420 et seq.
                                      (Ord. 05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord.
                                      11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
 
4-3-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate a medical marijuana establishment at any time
or at any location within the City unless a currently effective business
license for that person at that location has been issued under this chapter.
   B.   A medical marijuana dispensary, commercial marijuana grower, marijuana
processor, marijuana testing laboratory, marijuana education or research
facility shall operate only as allowed under this chapter.
   C.   The requirements set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any other licensing or permitting requirements imposed by
applicable Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, codes, or ordinances.
   D.   Permitting by the City shall only take place if the applicant is duly
licensed by the appropriate State agencies, including, but not limited to, the
Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority (OMMA) (or their successor agency) and the
Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Control (OBNDDC).
   E.   A business license and renewal business license shall not confer any
vested rights or reasonable expectation of subsequent renewal on the applicant
or business license holder, and shall remain valid only for a period of one (1)
year following its approval.
   F.   It is the sole and exclusive responsibility of each business license
holder or person applying to be a business license holder to immediately
provide the city with all material changes in any information submitted on an
application and any other changes that may materially affect any commercial
establishment license or Business license.
   G.   No business license issued under this chapter may be assigned or
transferred to any person or location.
   H.   The original business license issued under this chapter shall be
prominently displayed at the permitted premises in a location where it can be
easily viewed by the public, law enforcement and administrative authorities.
   I.   No business license shall be granted or renewed for a medical marijuana
dispensary, commercial marijuana grower, marijuana processor, marijuana
laboratory, marijuana research facility or marijuana testing facility in a
residence.
   J.   Any marijuana establishment that is legally operating prior to the
enactnent of this chapter may be required to comply with the requirements
herein; and shall be required to comply for annual renewal.
   K.   It is the intent of the city that nothing in this chapter be construed
to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
State law. (Ord. 05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-3: OPERATIONAL AND BUSINESS PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Business And Operation Plan: All Business license applicants for a
medical marijuana establishment shall submit a business and operations plan
with their application showing in detail the establishment's proposed plan of
operation, including without limitation, the following:
      1.   A description of the type of facility proposed and the anticipated
or actual number of employees;
      2.   A description by category of all products to be sold, processed,
tested or grown, including the estimated number of plants;
      3.   A list of material safety data sheets for all nutrients, pesticides
and other chemicals proposed for use in the facility;
      4.    A description and plan of all equipment and methods that will be
employed to stop any impact to adjacent uses, including enforceable assurances
that no odor will be detectable from outside of the permitted premises;
      5.   A plan for the disposal of marijuana and related byproducts that
will be used in the facility;
      6.   A security plan which shall include a general description of the
security systems and confirmation that those systems will meet State
requirements and be approved by the State prior to commencing operations;
      7.   A description of the State mandated inventory system that is
required by State law.
   B.   Operational Requirements: All business license holders shall at all
times comply with the following operational requirements, which the City may
review and amend from time to time as it determines reasonable :
      1.   All permitted premises shall comply with all respective applicable
codes of the local zoning, building, health departments, and federal agencies
such as, but not limited to the Environmental Protection Agency. The facility
must hold a valid local business license and commercial establishment license
for the type of facility intended to be carried out on the permitted property.
The facility operator, owner or licensee must have documentation available that
local and State sales tax requirements, including holding any licenses, if
applicable, are satisfied.
      2.   No business license holder shall be permitted to operate from a
moveable, mobile or transitory location except as allowed under the Oklahoma
State Department of Health rules that authorize and license the transportation
of medical marijuana. No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be allowed
to enter into the permitted premises without a parent or legal guardian.
      3.   All activities of a medical marijuana establishment including
without limitation, distribution, growth, cultivation, sale of marijuana,
testing, education, research, processing, and all other related activity
permitted under the business license holder's license or business license must
occur indoors. The facility's operation and design shall minimize any impact to
adjacent uses, including the control of any odor by maintaining and operating
an air filtration system so that no odor is detectable outside the permitted
premises.
      4.   All applicants for a marijuana establishment business license shall
implement and maintain appropriate security measures in order to deter and
prevent unauthorized access to or entrance into areas or spaces containing
marijuana by persons or entities not permitted to possess or distribute
marijuana under State law or regulation, and to prevent the theft or diversion
of marijuana.
      5.   Waste Disposal: The business license holder, owner and operator of
the facility shall use lawful methods in controlling waste or by-products from
any activities allowed under the business license.
      6.   The City may impose such reasonable terms and conditions on a
medical marijuana establishment as may be necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, and to obtain compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and applicable law.
      7.   The applicant shall make their marijuana establishment and all of
any required business records available for City inspection upon reasonable
request. (Ord. 05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-4: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
dispensary within the City must maintain a valid commercial establishment
license from the Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person operating a medical
marijuana dispensary within the City shall provide the City with a copy of
their commercial establishment license issued by the Oklahoma Department of
Health prior to commencing operation and shall furttrer provide the City with a
copy of any renewal of the commercial establishment license each calendar year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
dispensary within the City must obtain a medical marijuana dispensary business
license prior to commencing operation. Prior to issuance of a medical marijuana
dispensary business license, the physical address of the proposed medical
marijuana dispensary will be subject to a property inspection by an authorized
City inspector to insure compliance with all City codes. The property
inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the applicant
and City inspector. The applicant is required to be present during the
inspection. All stnrctutes, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all
building and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the City of
Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the City of Waurika's Building
Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall be paid prior to the
commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For Medical Marijuana Dispensary business license: Any
person seeking to obtain a medical marijuana dispensary business license shall
submit a written application to the City on a City prescribed form to include,
at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment;
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      10.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
tnre and correct;
      11.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authoized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      12.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity that is not lawfully entitled to possess marijuana;
      13.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder’s
valid tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed pennitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana dispensary.
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility.
         c.   Evidence of a valid sales tax license for the business if such a
license is required by State law or local regulations; and
         d.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to the marijuana dispensary for consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
administration, and enforcement of medical marijuana dispensary establishments.
Application fees shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Board of
City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administation, and enforcement of medical marijuana
dispensary establishments. Annual renewal application fees of any medical
marijuana dispensary business license shall be as set forth by resolution
adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Dispensary:
      1.   A medical marijuana dispensary business license will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') from any public or private school entrance. The distance
specified shall be measured from any entrance of the school to the nearest
property point of the dispensary.
      2.   A medical marijuana dispensary business license will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location is not within C-General Commercial
District zoning.
   I.   Conditions Of Operation For Commercial Medical Marijuana Dispensary:
      1.   All medical marijuana dispensaries shall be located within an
entirely enclosed and secured structure.
      2.   All medical marijuana dispensaries must be constructed in such a
manner that any marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right-of-way.
      3.   All medical marijuana dispensaries and equipment shall comply with
all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      4.   All medical marijuana dispensaries must be properly secured with an
alarm system and have limited access.
      5.   All medical marijuana dispensaries shall be conducted in a manner
that does not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to
exist if the dispensary produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration
that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      6.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-5: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a commercial grower
within the City must maintain a valid commercial establishment license from the
Oklahoma Departnent of Health. Each person operating a commercial grower within
the City shall provide the City with a copy of their commercial establishment
license issued by the Oklahoma Departnent of Health prior to commencing
operation and shall firther provide the City with a copy of any renewal of the
commercial establishment license each calendar year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: All operators of a commercial grower
within the City must obtain a commercial grower business license prior to
commencing operation. Prior to issuance of a commercial grower business
license, the physical address of the proposed commercial grower will be subject
to a property inspection by an authorized City inspector to insure compliance
with all City codes. The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and
approved by both the applicant and City inspector. The applicant is required to
be present during the inspection. All structrues, equipment and apparatuses
shall comply with all building and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma
and the City of Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the City of Waurika's
Building Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall be paid prior to
the commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For A Commercial Grower business license: Any person
seeking to obtain a commercial grower business license shall submit a written
application to the City on a City prescribed form to include, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment'
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      10.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
tnre and correct;
      11.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      12.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity other than a licensed and permitted dispensary, processor,
testing facility, education or research facility;
      13.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder's
valid tenancy, ownership, or other legal interest in the proposed pennitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana commercial grower;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers, and managers of the proposed facility; and
         c.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to the marijuana growing for consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fee: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
administation, and enforcement of medical marijuana commercial grower
establishments. Application fees shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by
the Board of City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administation, and enforcement of medical marijuana
commercial grower establishments. Annual renewal application fees of any
medical marijuana commercial grower business license shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Commercial Grower:
      1.   A medical marijuana grow facility business license will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is not within A- General
Agricultural District Zoning.
   I.   Conditions Of Operation For Commercial Medical Marijuana Grower:
      1.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities shall be located
within an entirely enclosed and secured structure.
      2.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities must be
constructed in such a manner that the growing of the medical marijuana plants
cannot be seen by the public from the public right-of-way.
      3.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities and equipment
shall comply with all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by
the State of Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      4.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities must be properly
vented so as to not create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      5.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities shall be fully
secured by having limited access and locked doors. All medical marijuana grower
facilities must be properly secured with an alarm system.
      6.   If medical marijuana growers use any products, such as pesticides or
other chemicals used in the cultivation process, including certain solvents or
other chemicals used in the production of marijuana concentrate, and flammable
solvents for the pqpose of producing a marijuana concentrate, such as, butane,
ethanol, or other solvents, they are all considered hazardous waste. Hazardous
wastes must be disposed of properly by a registered hazardous waste transporter
shipping to a hazardous waste fieatnent, storage and disposal facility (TSDF)
and comply with Federal regulations.
      7.   All commercial medical marijuana grower facilities shall be
conducted in a manner that does not constitute a public nuisance. A public
nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana produces light, glare,
heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      8.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; Ord. 04122021-01, 4-12-2021)
4-3-6: MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a marijuana processor
within the City must maintain a valid commercial establishment license from the
Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person operating a marijuana processor
within the City shall provide the City with a copy of their commercial
establishment license issued by the Oklahoma Department of Health prior to
commencing operation and shall further provide the City with a copy of any
renewal of the commercial establishment license each calendar year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: All operators of a marijuana
processor within the City must obtain a marijuana processor business license
from the City prior to commencing operation. Prior to issuance of a marijuana
processor business license, the physical address of the proposed marijuana
processor will be subject to a property inspection by an authorized City
inspector to insure compliance with all City codes. The property inspection
will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the applicant and City
inspector. The applicant is required to be present during the inspection. All
structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all building, electric,
plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the City of
Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the City of Waurika's Building
Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall be paid prior to the
commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For A Marijuana Processor business license: Any person
seeking to obtain a marijuana processor business license shall submit a written
application to the City on a City prescribed form to include, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment;
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      10.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      11.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      12.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity other than a licensed and permitted dispensary, testing
facility, education or research facility;
      13.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder's
valid tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana processor;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility; and
         c.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to the processing of marijuana for consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
administration and enforcement of medical marijuana processor establishments.
Application fees shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Board of
City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administration and enforcement of medical marijuana
processor establishments. Annual renewal application fees of any medical
marijuana processor business license shall be as set forth by resolution
adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Processor:
      1.   A medical marijuana processor business license will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location is not within I- General
Industrial District zoning.
   I.   Conditions Of Operation For Medical Marijuana Processor:
      1.   All marijuana processor facilities must be constructed in such a
manner that the processing of the medical marijuana cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
      2.   All marijuana processor facilities shall be located within an
entirely enclosed and secure structure, with locked doors at all times.
      3.   All medical marijuana processor facilities must be properly secured
with an alarm system and have limited access.
      4.   All marijuana processor facilities and equipment shall comply with
all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      5.   All marijuana processor facilities must be properly vented so as to
not create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   If medical marijuana processors use any products, such as chemicals
used in the extraction or for processing marijuana products, including certain
solvents or other chemicals used in the production of marijuana concentrate,
and flammable solvents for the purpose of producing a marijuana concentrate,
such as, butane, ethanol or other solvents, they are all considered hazardous
waste. Hazardous wastes must be disposed of properly by a registered hazardous
waste transporter shipping to a hazardous waste treatnent, storage and disposal
facility (TSDF) and comply with federal regulations.
      7.   Buildings where marijuana processing occurs must be equipped with
commercial grade equipment for proper food preparation, handling, packaging and
labeling in accordance with current State and Federal regulations (see 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 427.18 and DEQ regulations).
      8.   Buildings where marijuana processing occurs must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
      9.   Medical marijuana processing facilities must remain locked at all
times. The facility must have an electronic security system.
      10.   All marijuana processor facilities shall be conducted in a manner
that do not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to
exist if processing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or
vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      11.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-7: MEDICAL MARIJUANA TESTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
testing facility within the City must maintain a valid commercial establishment
license from the Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person operating a medical
marijuana testing facility within the City shall provide the City with a copy
of their commercial establishment license issued by the Oklahoma Department of
Health prior to commencing operation and shall firrtlrer provide the City with
a copy of any renewal of the commercial establishment license each calendar
year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
testing facility within the City must obtain a medical marijuana testing
business license from the City prior to commencing operation. Prior to issuance
of a marijuana testing certificate of compliance, the physical address of the
proposed marijuana testing facility will be subject to a property inspection by
an authorized City inspector to insure compliance wittt all City codes. The
property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the
applicant and City inspector. The applicant is required to be present during
the inspection. All structures, equipment and testing apparatuses shall comply
with all building, electric, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the City of
Waurika's Building Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall be paid
prior to the commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For A Medical Marijuana Testing business license: Any
person seeking to obtain a marijuana testing business license shall submit a
written application to the City on a City prescribed form to include, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment;
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffrx if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The name, address, telephone number and email of the Director of the
testing facility;
      10.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      11.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      12.   An application submitted on behalf of a business orgarrrzation
shall include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make
application on behalf of the business organization, full name of the business
organization, type of business organization, mailing address for the business
organization, and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      13.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity.
      14.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder's
valid tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana testing;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility; and
         c.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to marijuana testing for consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
administration and enforcement of medical marijuana testing establishments.
Application fees shall be as set forttr by resolution adopted by the Board of
City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administration and enforcement of medical marijuana
testing establishments. Annual renewal application fees of any medical
marijuana testing establishments business license shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Testing Facilities:
      1.   A medical marijuana testing business license will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location is not within I - General Industrial
District zoning.
   I.   Conditions of operation For Medical Marijuana Testing:
      1.   All marijuana testing facilities must be constructed in such a
manner that the testing of the medical marijuana cannot be seen by the public
from the public right-of-way.
      2.   All marijuana testing facilities shall be located within an entirely
enclosed and secure structure, with locked doors at all times.
      3.   All medical marijuana testing facilities must be properly secured
with an alarm system and have limited access.
      4.   All medical marijuana testing facilities and equipment shall comply
with all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      5.   All medical marijuana testing must be properly vented so as to not
create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   If medical marijuana testing use any products, such as chemicals,
flammable solvents, butane, ethanol or any other chemicals used in the
marijuana testing procedures, then these are all considered hazardous waste.
Hazardous wastes must be disposed of properly by a registered hazardous waste
transporter shipping to hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal
facility (TSDF) and comply with Federal regulations.
      7.   Buildings where marijuana testing occurs must be equipped with
commercial grade testing equipment in accordance with current State regulations
(see 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 427.17).
      8.   Buildings where marijuana testing occurs must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
      9.   Medical marijuana testing facilities must remain locked at all
times. The facility must have an electonic security system.
      10.   All marijuana testing facilities shall be conducted in a manner
that do not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to
exist if testing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or
vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      11.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-8: MEDICAL MARIJUANA EDUCATION AND/OR RESEARCH FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
education facility or medical marijuana research facility within the City must
maintain a valid commercial establishment license from the Oklahoma Department
of Health. Each person operating a medical marijuana education facility or
research facility within the City shall provide the City with a copy of their
commercial establishment license issued by the Oklahoma Deparfrnent of Health
prior to commencing operation and shall further provide the City with a copy of
any renewal of the commercial establishment license each calendar year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana
education facility or medical marijuana research facility within the City must
obtain a medical marijuana education facility business license or medical
marijuana research facility business license from the City prior to commencing
operation. Prior to issuance of a medical marijuana education business license
or medical marijuana research business license, the physical address of the
proposed facility will be subject to a property inspection by an authorized
City inspector to ensure compliance with all City codes. The property
inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the applicant
and City inspector. The applicant is required to be present during the
inspection. All structures, equipment, research, and testing apparatuses shall
comply with all building, electric, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the
State of Oklahoma and the City of Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the
City of Waurika's Building Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall
be paid prior to the commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For A Medical Marijuana Education Facility Business
license Or Medical Marijuana Research Facility business license: Any person
seeking to obtain a medical marijuana education facility business license or
medical marijuana research facility business license shall submit a written
application to the City on a City prescribed form to include, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment;
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The name, address, telephone number and email of the Director of the
Facility;
      10.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      11.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      12.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      13.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity;
      14.   One copy of all ofthe following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder's
valid tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana education or research;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility; and
         c.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to marijuana education or research for consideration of the
application.
   D.   Application Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, administation
and enforcement of medical marijuana education and research establishments.
Application fees shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Board of
City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administration and enforcement of medical marijuana
education and research establishments. Annual renewal application fees of any
medical marijuana education and research establishment business license shall
be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forth by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Education And/Or Research
Facilities:
      1.   A medical marijuana education or research business license will not
be granted to any applicant where the proposed location is not within I-
General Industrial District zoning.
   I.   Conditions Of Operation For Medical Marijuana Education Or Research:
      1.   All marijuana education or research facilities must be constructed
in such a manner that the processing of the medical marijuana cannot be seen by
the public from the public right-of-way.
      2.   All marijuana education or research facilities shall be located
within an entirely enclosed and secure structure, with locked doors at all
times.
      3.   All medical marijuana education or research facilities must be
properly secured with an alarm system and have limited access.
      4.   All medical marijuana education or research facilities shall comply
with all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      5.   All medical marijuana education or research must be properly vented
so as to not create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   If medical marijuana education or research owners use any products,
such as chemicals, flammable solvents, butane, ethanol or any other chemicals
used in the marijuana education or research procedures, then these are all
considered hazardous waste. Hazardous wastes must be disposed of properly by a
registered hazardous waste transporter shipping to a hazardous waste treatment,
storage and disposal facility (TSDF) and comply with Federal regulations (see
63 Oklahoma Statutes section 429(8)).
      7.   Buildings where marijuana education or research occurs must be
equipped with commercial grade equipment.
      8.   Buildings where marijuana education or research occurs must be
equipped with ventilation/air filnation systems so that no odors are detectable
off premises.
      9.   Medical marijuana education or research facilities must remain
locked at all times. The facility must have an electonic security system.
      10.   All marijuana education or research facilities shall be conducted
in a manner that do not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be
deemed to exist if the education or research produces light, glare, heat,
noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      11.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-9: MEDICAL MARIJUANA WASTE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a medical marijuana waste
disposal facility within the City must maintain a valid commercial
establishment license from the Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person
operating a medical marijuana waste disposal facility within the City shall
provide the City with a copy of their commercial establishment license issued
by the Oklahoma Department of Health prior to commencing operation and shall
further provide the City with a copy of any renewal of the commercial
establishment license each calendar year.
   B.   City Business license Requirement: A medical marijuana waste disposal
business license shall not be required for an individual grower unless the grow
facility accommodates five thousand (5,000) plants per planting cycle or more.
Those facilities within the City must obtain a medical marijuana waste disposal
facility business license from the City prior to commencing operation. Prior to
issuance of a medical marijuana waste disposal business license, the physical
address of the proposed facility will be subject to a property inspection by an
authorized City inspector to insure compliance with all City codes. The
property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by both the
applicant and City inspector. The applicant is required to be present during
the inspection. All structures and equipment shall comply with all building,
electric, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the City
of Waurika. Inspections shall be subject to the City of Waurika's Building
Inspection Fee Schedule. All inspection fees shall be paid prior to the
commencement of any inspection.
   C.   Applications For A Medical Marijuana Waste Disposal business license:
Any person seeking to obtain a medical marijuana waste disposal business
license shall submit a written application to the City on a City prescribed
form to include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   If the establishing is a legal entity, then a statement from the
Oklahoma Secretary of State stating that the establishing is operating in "Good
Condition";
      3.   Physical address of the establishment;
      4.   Phone number of the establishment;
      5.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      6.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      7.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      8.   The applicant's date of birth;
      9.   The name, address, telephone number and email of the Director of the
Facility;
      10.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      11.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      12.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
and the full names of all owners of the organization;
      13.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity;
      14.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed business license holder's
valid tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted
premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises,
a notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of
the property for a medical marijuana waste disposal facility;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility; and
         c.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City to be
relevant to marijuana waste disposal for consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for a business license, an application fee. The fee shall be used
to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
administration and enforcement of medical marijuana waste disposal
establishments. Application fees shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by
the Board of City Commissioners.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Each applicant shall pay, at the time of filing the
application for an annual renewal of a business license, an annual renewal
application fee. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, administration and enforcement of medical marijuana
waste disposal establishments. Renewal fees shall be as set forth by resolution
adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   F.   Business license Fee: No person shall operate or maintain a medical
marijuana establishment without having previously paid the associated and
annual business license fee. The business license fee shall be as set forttr by
resolution adopted by the Board of City Commissioners.
   G.   Application Fees And Annual Renewal Fees Are Non-Refundable: The
application fees and annual renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the
submission of an application for a business license and are not prorated.
   H.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Waste Disposal Facilities:
      1.   All commercial disposal facilities for medical marijuana waste or
medical marijuana byproducts shall not be allowed within one thousand feet
(1,000') from any day care, public or private school entrance. The distance
specified shall be measure from any entance of the school to the nearest
property point of the dispensary.
      2.   Residual Tetratrydrocannabinol (THC), which is the chemical
responsible for most of marijuana's euphoric and medicinal effects, can poison
animals and have adverse effects on the local ecology if improperly disposed.
Furthermore, marijuana growers, processors, testing labs, educators or research
facilities may use products, such as pesticides or other chemicals used in the
cultivation process, certain solvents or other chemicals used in the production
of marijuana concentrate, and flammable solvents for the purpose of producing a
marijuana concentrate, which are all considered hazardous waste. Hazardous
wastes must be disposed ofproperly by a registered hazardous waste transporter
shipping to ahazardous waste treatnent, storage and disposal facility (TSDF).
Furthermore, if a licensee generates waste that are regulatedbazardous wastes,
then the licensee must comply with all Environmental Protection Agency rules
and regulations before the wastes can be accepted for disposal by an
appropriate hazardous waste TSDF.
      3.   A medical marijuana waste disposal business license will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is not within I- General
Industrial District zoning.
   I.   Conditions Of Operation For Medical Marijuana Waste Disposal Facility:
      1.   All marijuana waste disposal facilities must be constructed in such
a manner that the disposal of the medical marijuana waste cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
      2.   All medical marijuana waste disposal shall be located within an
entirely enclosed and secure area with locked gates at all times.
      3.   All medical marijuana waste disposal facilities must be properly
secured with an alarm system and have limited access.
      4.   All medical marijuana waste disposal facilities shall comply with
all building, electrical, plumbing and fire codes adopted by the State of
Oklahoma and the City of Waurika.
      5.   All medical marijuana waste disposal shall be performed so that
plants and products are rendered unusable and unrecognizable.
      6.   All medical marijuana waste disposal shall be performed by burying,
mulching, or composting. Open burning and incineration shall not be allowed.
      7.   If medical marijuana waste being disposed of has any products, such
as chemicals, flammable solvents, butane, ethanol or any other chemicals used
in the marijuana education or research procedures, then these are all
considered hazardous waste. Hazardous wastes must be disposed of properly by a
registered hazardous waste transporter shipping to a hazardous waste treatment,
storage and disposal facility (TSDF) and comply with Federal regulations.
      8.   No marijuana or marijuana derivatives which have been chemically
enhanced, shall be disposed of in the City; all marijuana products with
chemicals shall be considered medical waste and shall be properly disposed of
as red bag medical waste in a proper medical waste disposal facility.
      9.   No obnoxious odors or noises shall be permitted from medical
marijuana waste disposal facility.
      10.   All medical marijuana waste disposal facilities shall be operated
in a manner that does not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may
be deemed to exist if the disposal produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor,
runoff substances, or vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      11.   Before annual renewal, the City shall inspect the premises and any
business records they deem reasonable to ensure compliance with all laws. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-10: MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL USE:
   A.   All medical marijuana grown at home by u qualified patient or caregiver
patient medical marijuana license holders can only be grown on residential real
property owned by the patient license holder or on rented real property for
which the patient license holder has the property owner's written permission to
grow medical marijuana on the property.
   B.   All homegrown medical marijuana plants must be grown so that the
marijuana is not accessible to a member of the general public and is only
accessible to the patient or caregiver. If grown outdoors, marijuana must be
grown behind an opaque fence that is at least six feet (6') in height. The
marijuana plants must be completely enclosed by the fence and the fence must be
secured with a lock and key. No marijuana plants may be visible from any street
or any adjacent property.
   C.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   D.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to a single
private residence.
   E.   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   F.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building, electrical, plumbing, and
fire codes. The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold, or other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed one
thousand (1,000) watts per light.
   G.   The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone generators
in the growing area is prohibited.
   H.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property. (Ord. 05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd.
Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-11: APPROVAL, ISSUANCE, DENIAL AND APPEAL:
   A.   All inspections, review, and process of any application under this
chapter shall be completed within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete
application and all required fees. The City Manager or the City Manager's
designee shall approve or deny the business license within one hundred twenty
(120) days of receipt of the completed application and fees. The processing
time may be extended upon written notice by City Manager or the City Manager's
designee for good cause, and any failure to meet the required processing times
shall not result in the automatic grant of the business license.
   B.   Any denial must be in writing and must state the reason(s) for denial.
Any final denial of a business license may be appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction; provided that the pendency of an appeal shall not stay or extend
the issuance of, or expiration of any business license.
   C.   Neither the City Manager nor the City Manager's designee has any
obligation to process or approve any incomplete application, and any times
provided under this chapter shall not begin to run until the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee receives a complete application as determined by
the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. A determination of a complete
application shall not prohibit the City from requiring supplemental
information.
   D.   Renewal applications shall require approval by City Manager or the City
Manager's designee and shall be submitted to and received by the City not less
than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the annual business license. A
business license holder whose business license expires and for which a complete
renewal application has not been received by the expiration date shall be
deemed to have forfeited the business license under this chapter. Neither the
City Manager nor the City Manager's designee will accept renewal applications
after the expiration date of the business license. The same requirements that
apply to all new applications for a business license apply to all renewal
applications.
   E.   Any marijuana establishment that applies for a business license shall
not commence operations until the business license has been approved. (Ord.
05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-12: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all City property
including vehicles, buildings, parks, City sidewalks, streets, or other
facilities.
   B.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Municipal Issued Marijuana License;
Hearing: The City Manager or designee shall revoke or suspend a license issued
under this chapter on any of the following grounds:
      1.   Violation of any City ordinance, State law, Department of Health
regulations, Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority regulations, the Oklahoma
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Control regulations, or any other laws
governing medical marijuana.
      2.   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement,
or omission of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant, the
facility, or the products being used at the facility was not properly disclosed
at the time of the application, and such fact(s) would have constituted just
cause for refusal to issue the license.
      3.   Prior to suspension or revocation the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the City Manager or designee. If an employee has been designated
by the City Manager, such designee shall make a report to the City Manager
together with a recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or
revoked.
   C.   Revocation of any Department of Health marijuana license shall result
in the immediate revocation of any City issued business license under this
chapter. Any person or entity applying for or issued a business license by the
City under this chapter shall comply with all State laws, rules and
regulations. (Ord. 05112020-04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
4-3-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No commercial marijuana establishment shall allow the consumption of
alcohol, medical marijuana, or medical marijuana products on the premises.
   B.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
   C.   No commercial marijuana establishment shall employ any person under the
age of eighteen (18).
   D.   No grower, processor, tester, educator, or researcher shall allow for,
or provide the delivery of medical marijuana products to patient license
holders or caregiver’s license holders.
   E.   No commercial establishment shall engage in false advertising, BS
prohibited by law. A medical marijuana business shall not engage in advertising
that is deceptive, false, or misleading. Medical marijuana advertising shall
not contain any statement or illustration that:
      1.   Promotes over-consumption;
      2.   Represents that the use of marijuana has curative or therapeutic
effects; or
      3.   Depicts a child or other person under legal age to consume
marijuana, or includes:
         a.   Objects such as toys or cartoon or other characters, which
suggest the presence of a child, or any of the depiction designed in any manner
to be especially appealing to children or other persons under legal age to
consume marijuana; or
         b.   Any manner or design that would be especially appealing to
children or other persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   F.   A medical marijuana business shall not include in any form of
advertising or signage any content that specifically targets individuals under
the age of eighteen (18), including but not limited to cartoon characters or
similar images (see 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 427.21 (B)). (Ord. 05112020-
04, 5-11-2020; amd. Ord. 11082021-11, 11-8-2021)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: License Required; Exclusions
4-4-3: Application For License; Bond
4-4-4: Investigation Of Applicant; License Issuance
4-4-5: Hours; Transfer And Exhibition Of License
4-4-6: Revocation Of License
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ITINERANT OCCUPATION: Those occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations
having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence or place of
business within the City at which a permanent business is carried on throughout
the year or usual production season in good faith (and not for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this chapter), and shall include occupations, trades,
businesses and solicitations housed in temporary stands or quarters (including
permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary arrangement), or carried
on by means of house to house solicitation or upon the streets and sidewalks of
the City; provided, however, that no occupation, trade or business engaged in
by a charitable, educational or religious organization, association or club
having a membership duly enrolled in accordance with the rules, regulations and
bylaws of said organization, association or club and the majority of said
members being residents of the City of Waurika, or of Jefferson County,
Oklahoma, shall be considered an "itinerant occupation, trade, business or
solicitation".
PEDDLER: The word "peddler" shall include the words "hawker" and "huckster" and
shall mean any person who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise of whatsoever nature,
offering and exposing the same for sale, or who does not travel from place to
place, and shall sell or offer the same for sale from any vehicle or conveyance
or on any public street or thoroughfare.
PERSON: Any individual, and shall not extend and be applied to firms,
corporations or any other organizations.
SOLICITOR AND CANVASSER: A person who travels by foot or by any type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders from the same of goods, wares, merchandise
or personal property of whatsoever nature for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future. (2007 Code § 5-1)
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   License Required; Payment Of Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person
to engage in the business of peddler, solicitor, canvasser or any other
itinerant occupation within the corporate limits of the City without first
obtaining a license therefor, as provided in this chapter, and paying the
prescribed fees to cover the reasonable costs of investigation and processing
of the application. The fee shall be paid to the City Clerk when the
application is filed and shall not be returnable under any circumstances. The
City Commission, from time to time, may change such fee by resolution, to an
amount not to exceed the reasonable costs of licensing and enforcement under
this chapter. (Ord. 0115-14-20, 1-15-2014)
   B.   Exclusions: The following persons are hereby specifically excluded from
the application of the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property; and
      2.   Merchants growing their own local produce, and having regular places
of business in the City, and their employees in taking orders at the houses of
their customers for goods held in stock at said places of business, and in
delivering the goods so ordered; such exclusion shall not apply to a person
who, personally or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the City, for the
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. (2007 Code
§ 5-2)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; BOND:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Applicants for a license hereunder shall file
with the City Clerk, in duplicate, a sworn application in writing, on a form to
be furnished by the City Clerk.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall give the following
information:
      1.   Full name, birth date and social security number of each individual
applicant;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   Nature of business and kinds of goods to be sold, and if the
applicant is a farmer or truck gardener, whether said goods are produced or
personally owned, cultivated and controlled;
      4.   If employed by another, the name and address of the applicant's
employer, together with a brief description of credentials showing the exact
relationship;
      5.   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      6.   Description and license number of any vehicle to be used; and
      7.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a felony, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   C.   Payment Of State And Local Taxes: Each individual applicant for a
license shall provide written proof that the applicant will collect and remit
State and local Sales Taxes to the City, if required by State law and Municipal
ordinance.
   D.   Surety Bond: Each individual applicant for a license shall submit with
the application a surety bond or cash in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), executed by the applicant and by a surety company qualified to do
business within the State. The bond shall run in favor of the City, but action
may be taken on the bond by any citizen who has been damaged by the applicant.
If more than one applicant shall be employed by the same employer, the employer
may furnish the surety bond in lieu of the applicant, and the amount of such
bond shall be the total number of employees multiplied by one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). The employer shall have the privilege of changing employees, but
the number of employees shall never exceed the amount listed in the original
bond filed. Any increase in the number of employees shall require either
individual surety bonds for the additional employees, or an increase in the
amount of the original surety bond in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each additional employee. Any employer furnishing such a bond
shall furnish to the City Clerk a current list of employees covered by the
bond. (2007 Code § 5-3)
4-4-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Application Referred To Police Chief: Upon receipt of an application
for a license, the City Clerk shall refer one copy to the Chief of Police who
shall note thereon any record concerning the applicant which may appear from
the official records and return the same promptly to the City Clerk. (2007 Code
§ 5-4)
   B.   Time Limit For Investigation: Within ten (10) business days from
receipt of the application, with the day of receipt of the application not
being included in said ten (10) days, the City Clerk shall cause such other
investigation or inquiry to be made concerning the applicant as may be deemed
necessary to determine the character and business responsibility of the
applicant and whether the application is in compliance with the terms and
conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 0115-14-20, 1-15-2014)
   C.   License Issuance: If, as a result of the investigation, the character
and business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory and
the application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter,
the City Clerk, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, shall issue the
license, together with any badge, tag or other materials properly an
accompaniment thereto.
   D.   License Denial; Appeal:
      1.   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in this chapter,
the applicant's character or business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police or the City Clerk shall endorse on such
application disapproval thereof and the reasons for the same, and the City
Clerk shall then notify the applicant that the application has been disapproved
and that no license will be issued.
      2.   Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the
City Clerk in the denial of a license as provided in subsection D1 of this
section shall have the right to appeal therefrom to the City Commission. Such
appeal shall be filed, in writing with the City Commission, within fourteen
(14) days after notice of the action complained of has been given to the
applicant personally or mailed, postage prepaid, to the last known address
thereof. The City Commission shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant at least five
(5) days prior to the date set for hearing. The decision and order of the City
Commission on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (2007 Code § 5-4)
4-4-5: HOURS; TRANSFER AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Solicitation: No solicitation shall be conducted between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. each day, because
of the need for public security and protection; provided, however, that
solicitations may be made where the person solicited has agreed by previously
arranged appointment for a time other than during the prescribed hours.
   B.   Use Of License Or Badge Restricted: No license or badge issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall be used or worn at any time by any person
other than the person to whom it was issued.
   C.   Display Of License: Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers and other
itinerant occupations are required to exhibit and display their licenses or
authorized evidence thereof at all times, whenever they are engaged in
peddling, canvassing or soliciting. (2007 Code § 5-6)
4-4-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes For Revocation: Licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked by the City Clerk after notice has been served on the
applicant for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on business as a solicitor or canvasser;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any felony involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation; Appeal: Notice of revocation of a license shall
be in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time
and place for a hearing where the decision to revoke may be appealed to the
City Commission. Such notice shall be given to the appellant in the same manner
as provided in subsection
4-4-4D2 of this chapter, for notice of hearing on approval of an application
for a license. (2007 Code § 5-5)
CHAPTER 5
OUTDOOR AMUSEMENT EVENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Exceptions
4-5-4: Special Waiver Of License Requirements
4-5-5: Limitation On Number And Duration Of Events
4-5-6: License Fee
4-5-7: Enforcement Of Ordinances, Rules And Regulations
4-5-8: Appeal
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
   A.   For the purpose of this division, the term "amusement events" includes:
      1.   Concerts.
      2.   Swap meets.
      3.   Fairs.
      4.   Festivals.
      5.   Carnivals.
      6.   Motor vehicle events.
      7.   Other similar outdoor events or enterprises that are anticipated to
draw So or more participants and spectators combined.
   B.   An enterprise or event shall be deemed to be an "outdoor" enterprise or
event if all or a majority of the event or enterprise will be held outdoors.
(Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or hold an outdoor amusement event within the corporate
limits of the city without first obtaining a license from the city. The license
shall expire at the conclusion of the event. A condition of the license shall
be that the licensee shall conduct the outdoor amusement event in strict
compliance with all of ordinances and regulations of the city. In determining
whether a license should be granted, the city will consider traffic congestion,
parking, environmental concerns, impact of the event upon the neighboring area,
and the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city. (Ord.
05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The following activities and events shall be exempt from the permit
requirements:
      1.   Events that have been approved by the city to be held on property
owned by the city or by any municipal public trust authority;
      2.   Events to be held on the Jefferson County Fairgrounds property;
      3.   Events to be held on public school property for the benefit of the
public schools;
      4.   Events held by employers for employees and their families only to be
held on the employer's property;
      5.   Golf tournaments held at a public or private golf course; and
      6.   Events to be held on property owned by religious organizations for
the benefit of the religious organization and its congregation.
   B.   Events excepted under this section are still subject to compliance with
applicable life safety, fire and building codes. (Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-4: SPECIAL WAIVER OF LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
An individual or organization that is not exempt from the license requirements
may apply for a special waiver through the community development office. The
city manager or his designee shall have the authority to waive the license
requirements for athletic sporting events and for other special events. In
determining whether a special waiver should be granted, the city manager or his
designee may consider traffic congestion, parking, environmental concerns, and
impact of the event upon the neighboring area, and the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the city. If the special waiver is granted the
waiver shall designate the date, time and duration of the event. The fact that
a special waiver was previously granted for a similar event shall not be a
factor to be considered in determining whether a special waiver should be
granted on a subsequent occasion to the same or a different applicant. (Ord.
05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-5: LIMITATION ON NUMBER AND DURATION OF EVENTS:
The city shall have the right to restrict the number of outdoor amusement
events that may be held on any property to two events per year with each event
having a maximum duration of three (3) days. (Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-6: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for outdoor amusement events shall be set by a resolution of
the Board of City Commissioners. (Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-7: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The issuance of a license for an outdoor amusement event shall not constitute a
waiver of the enforcement of any ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
city. Every event must be conducted in compliance with all municipal ordinances
and regulations, including, but not limited to, the zoning, advertising, noise,
nuisance, health, and safety laws of the city. (Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
4-5-8: APPEAL:
The license applicant shall have the right to appeal a denial of a license by
the City Manager to the Board of City Commissioners by filing a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the denial of the license
application. (Ord. 05092022-12, 5-9-2022)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Public And Private Nuisances
5-1-3: Power To Determine And Summarily Abate Nuisances
5-1-4: General Public Nuisances Defined And Prohibited
5-1-5: Remedies Against Public And Private Nuisances
5-1-6: Time Does Not Legalize Nuisance
5-1-7: Person Liable
5-1-8: Procedures Cumulative
5-1-9: Review Of Demolition Activities
5-1-10: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
5-1-11: Abatement Of Public Health Nuisances
5-1-12: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, these words shall have the following meanings:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle stored, parked, or kept and not in actual use as
means of transportation or having a valid registration tag.
ADVERTISING: Any letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing,
picture, writing, or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an
owner or tenant of the property, or an agent of such owner or tenant, for the
purpose of promoting products or services or conveying information to the
public.
BLIGHT: A deteriorated condition.
BOARDED AND SECURED: The term "boarded and secured" or "boarding and securing"
shall mean the closing, boarding or locking of any or all exterior openings so
as to prevent entry into a structure.
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A. A structure which through neglect or injury lacks the
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin, to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public;
   B.   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public;
   C.   A structure which is determined by the Board of City Commissioners or
administrative officer of the City to be an unsecured building more than three
(3) times within any twelve (12) month period;
   D.   A structure which has been boarded and secured for more than eighteen
(18) consecutive months; or
   E.   A structure declared by the Board of City Commissioners to constitute a
public nuisance.
DISABLED: With regard to a motor vehicle, shall mean any vehicle with a current
tag and current insurance that is temporarily disabled because of a mechanical
malfunction.
GRAFFITI: Shall mean, without limitation, any letter, word, name, number,
symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of any kind
visible to the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched, or etched on
a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building, or other structure;
provided, this definition shall not include advertising or any other letter,
word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or
other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the property,
a tenant of the property, or by an authorized agent for such owner or tenant.
INOPERABLE: The term "inoperable" or "nonoperating", with regard to a motor
vehicle, shall mean any vehicle which cannot be driven upon public streets for
reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in
a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own power and shall
include bodies, engine, transmissions, frames, rear ends and parts.
JUNKED VEHICLE: Any vehicle, as defined herein, which is wrecked, discarded,
dismantled, partially dismantled, disabled, inoperative, deteriorated, decayed,
lacks necessary repairs or maintenance, bears no State license plate or bears a
registration tag that is more than three (3) months out of date, and shall be
deemed to include the major parts thereof, including bodies, engines,
transmissions, frames and rear ends.
MORTGAGE HOLDER: Mortgage holder of record as shown by the most current County
Clerk records.
OWNER: With regard to real property, shall mean the owner(s) of record, as
shown by the most current tax rolls of the Jefferson County Treasurer. The term
"owner", with regard to a motor vehicle, shall mean any person, firm or
corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the subject vehicle,
including an officer, guardian, executor, administrator, mortgagee in
possession, managing or leasing agent of such person, firm or corporation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the City, that is privately owned,
and that is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property which is dedicated to the public use and
over which the Federal, State, or Municipal government, or any political
subdivision thereof, owns, leases, or exercises control and dominion.
REMOVAL: The terms "removal", "remove", or "removed", when used in relation to
the eradication of graffiti, shall mean the act of taking graffiti off of, or
masking the presence of graffiti on, a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate,
building or other structure.
TENANT: Any person shown by the records of the County Clerk's Office as a
lessee of property, or any person lawfully in actual physical possession of
property.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or other matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded, or abandoned.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: A structure that, due to lack of necessary repairs,
is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare
of the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or equitable
owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into which
there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is self-propelled or designed to travel along the
ground or water, and the term "vehicle" shall include, but not be limited to,
automobiles, boats, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks,
tractors, travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers, motor homes,
recreational vehicles, buggy, wagon, or self-propelled farm and construction
equipment. Vehicle in the singular shall be interpreted as meaning the plural
when multiple vehicles exist on a property.
WEED:
   A.   Shall include, but not be limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac, and all vegetation at any stage of maturity, which:
      1. Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
      2. Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3. Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4. Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5. Constitutes a traffic or fire hazard; or
      6. Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops or land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
WRECKED: Something disabled or in a state of ruin or dilapidation. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-2: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance within the corporate limits of the City, or to permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under said person's control within the corporate
limits of the City.
   B.   A nuisance consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a
duty, or any thing or condition which:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, health or safety of
others;
      2.   Offends public decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for use, any lake, drainageway, stream, stream basin, public park,
street or other public property; and/or
      4.   In any way renders persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   C.   A public nuisance is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community, neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   D.   Every nuisance not included in subsection C of this section is a
private nuisance. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-3: POWER TO DETERMINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
   A.   As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, as amended, the City
has the power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within
the corporate limits of the City, and, for the protection of the public health,
parks and water supply, outside of the City's corporate limits.
   B.   Whenever it is practical to do so, the City has the power summarily to
abate any such nuisance, after notice to the owner and opportunity to be heard,
if this can be done. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-4: GENERAL PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED AND PROHIBITED:
   A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this Code or law, the following are hereby declared to be nuisances and are
prohibited in the City:
      1.   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made.
      2.   The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of State law or ordinance of the City; or the keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the State law or ordinances of the City.
      3.   The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or distributed.
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease as
defined by applicable health laws and regulations.
      7.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinances.
      8.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others.
      9.   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      10.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      11.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse, or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist.
      12.   Locating, maintaining, or raising animals that annoy surrounding
property owners through loud noises, odors, or unsanitary conditions.
      13.   Operating any business establishment, or performing, maintaining,
or allowing any nonbusiness activity, which annoys surrounding property owners
through loud noises, odors, etc., in violation of this Code.
      14.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
      15.   Any building, sign, pole, tower, fence, or other structure which
has, through injury or neglect, become dilapidated and a hazard to the
community and surrounding properties.
      16.   Any building, sign, pole, tower, fence, or other structure which
has been constructed in violation of City permit, Zoning, or Building Code
standards.
      17.   Any lot or tract which has become overgrown with weeds or contains
trash, rubbish, or similar materials to the extent that it is considered to be
a fire or health hazard.
      18.   Any building which has become vacant or unsecured or provides an
attractive location for illegal activities, a congregating place for
transients, or hazard to children playing in the neighborhood.
      19.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking, or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious, or
annoying to the comfort, health, and welfare of any resident of the City.
      20.   Any tree kept, maintained, or not removed in which a limb, branch,
stem, stump, or part thereof may cause injury to property owner/occupant or any
passerby, or may cause damage to any fence, structure, vehicle, or any other
property or utilities.
      21.   Parking of motor vehicle and trailers outside of an approved
parking surface.
      22.   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the City in
violation of this Code.
      23.   Any vault, cesspool, or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse, or other filthy substance.
      24.   Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure, or decayed or decaying
vegetable matter left, kept, or maintained in such condition as to endanger the
public health.
      25.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety.
      26.   Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants within the
City.
      27.   Permitting foul, noxious, or offensive odors to escape from
premises; or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates.
      28.   Keeping, permitting, or maintaining any unclean, foul, leaking,
broken or defective ditch, drain, gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box,
grease barrel or other receptacle in the City.
      29.   The maintenance of any hazardous chemicals, explosives, or
corrosives in an unsafe manner or in such a manner as to violate State law,
this Code, or otherwise endanger public health or safety.
      30.   Locating, maintaining, keeping, or raising livestock or other
animals without permits or licenses in violation of title 6, chapter 6 of this
Code and other provisions of this Code.
      31.   Allowing the exterior of buildings and structures to be maintained
in such a manner that their appearance constitutes a blighting influence for
adjoining property. As used in this subsection, blighting influence shall mean
the maintaining of the exterior of a building or structure in a condition that,
if not corrected, would or could cause surrounding buildings and structures to
become likewise maintained leading to an overall deterioration of the
surrounding area.
      32.   The existence of graffiti or the act of placing graffiti on any
real or personal property, by altering or defacing any real or personal
property of another without their consent.
      33.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death.
      34.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
      35.   Any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle,
left for such time and under such conditions as to cause it to reasonably
appear to have been abandoned, upon any private property, City street, public
easement or right-of-way not excepted and presumed abandoned as provided in
article E of this chapter.
      36.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare.
      37.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of State law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
   B.   The enumeration of certain public nuisances set forth in subsection A
of this section shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-5: REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The possible remedies against a public nuisance
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Reporting the offense to the City Code Enforcement Officer who will
investigate and order the appropriate remedy;
      2.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      3.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      4.   Civil action; and
      5.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
section 12, as amended; and/or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance.
   B.   Private Nuisances: The possible remedies against private nuisances
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Civil action; and
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15, as amended; and
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance. (Ord. 02062017-
2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-6: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-7: PERSON LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (Ord. 02062017-
2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-8: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The
City may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-9: REVIEW OF DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES:
The Preservation Commission shall have the power to make recommendations
regarding the proposed demolition of designated historic landmarks or historic
structures, including public demolition procedures initiated through statutory
"nuisance abatement" processes, as well as other public or privately initiated
demolition processes; no permit to demolish all or part of such historic
landmarks or historic structures shall be granted by the Municipal building
inspector, nor shall an abatement order be implemented, except as follows:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of the
City, in charge of a historic landmark or historic site improvement in a
Historic District shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish,
partially or in total, such property without the written approval of the
Preservation Commission.
   B.   Upon the filing of an application with the Preservation Commission,
said commission shall determine whether the proposed change would destroy or
adversely affect the historical features of the historic landmark, historic
site or Historic District property.
   C.   If the Preservation Commission determines that the historic landmark,
historic site or property within a Historic District would be adversely
affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent to the granting of
permission for the permit. The commission shall make its decision within thirty
(30) days after the filing of such application, and shall state in writing the
reasons for withholding consent, mailing the same to the applicant.
   D.   If the Preservation Commission refuses to grant permission or approve
issuance of a permit for demolition, negotiations shall be initiated with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is agreed
upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the Municipal
building inspector may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or the
Municipal agent may proceed, without the approval of the commission. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-10: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Nuisances Constituting Immediate Danger:
      1.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or the public generally.
      2.   It is recognized that circumstances may be such as to justify, and
even to require, the City Manager or other appropriate officer or agency of the
City government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate the
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward the abatement.
   B.   Submission Of Statement Of Nuisance And Request For Abatement:
      1.   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the building inspector, or any officer subordinate to the City
Manager, may submit to the City Manager a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the City or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
      2.   The City Manager, any City Commissioner, or any resident or
residents of the City may submit a statement and request or recommendation to
the Administrative Body.
   C.   Administrative Body; Determination, Hearing, Notice:
      1.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
Administrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article and shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a nuisance
in fact. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding of a nuisance and order of abatement requires a majority
vote of the Administrative Body. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Administrative Body shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects.
      2.   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, the
Administrative Body shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to
the owner of any property concerned to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if the notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. The notice
of hearing to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing:
         a.   By certified mail;
         b.   By service by a police officer, if their names and addresses are
known;
         c.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
City if the names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay.
   D.   Abatement By City; Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   If the Administrative Body finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
it shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate it within the specified time, the Administrative Body shall direct the
City Manager to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement
is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, as amended. The
property owner shall have the right of appeal to the Board of City
Commissioners from any order of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10)
days after the administrative order is rendered.
      2.   The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of the summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, the cost shall constitute a debt to the City,
collectible as other debts of the City may be collected.
   E.   When Summary Abatement Impractical: In cases where it is deemed
impractical summarily to abate a nuisance as provided for in this chapter, the
City may bring suit in the District Court of the County, as provided in 50
Oklahoma Statutes section 17, as amended, and it is hereby made the duty of the
Board of City Commissioners, by the adoption of a resolution, to direct the
bringing of suit in the proper court for the abating of the nuisance. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 05112020-10, 5-11-2020)
5-1-11: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1011, as amended, the City, by and through the appointed Health Officer of the
City, or other officer, the Board of City Commissioners designates to perform
the functions and duties set forth in this section, shall have the authority to
order the owner or occupant of any private premises in the City to remove from
such premises, at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness,
condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute
to the transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the
public health, within twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as
might be reasonable, and a failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the owner or
occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, or a copy thereof may be
left at the last usual place of abode of such owner, occupant or agent, if
known and within the State. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of
such owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the State, such order
may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in
at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the City.
   B.   If such order is not complied with, the City may cause the order to be
executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the City
Clerk, who shall add the same to the Municipal utility bill of the owner or
occupant, and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any Municipal utility service, such
costs, after certification to the City Clerk, may be collected in any manner in
which any other debt due the City may be collected. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
nuisance as defined in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the limits
established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
ARTICLE A. UNSAFE AND DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Removal Authorized; Hearing; Costs
5-1A-2: Administrative Body; Abatement Order
5-1A-3: Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees
5-1A-4: Exclusion, Agricultural Property
5-1A-5: Right To Stop Construction
5-1A-1: REMOVAL AUTHORIZED; HEARING; COSTS:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112, as amended, the City may cause
dilapidated buildings within the City limits to be torn down and removed in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
   A.   The Administrative Body shall serve as the hearing body for the
abatement of dilapidated buildings and structures.
   B.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the Administrative
Body holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to
be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
Office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the Office of the County Clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication as defined in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102. The notice may be published once not less
than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the City pursuant to the
provisions of this article.
   C.   A hearing shall be held by the Administrative Body to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community, or if the property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property. At the hearing, the
Administrative Body may review material from the community's preservation
inventory concerning historic and/or architectural significance of the building
or structure.
   D.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, the City may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down
and removed. The City shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and
completion of the work. The City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of
dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk describing the property, the
findings of the City at the hearing, and stating that the City claims a lien on
the property for the destruction and removal costs and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing of
the notice. The agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the
property for the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function
of the City if the work is not performed by the property owner within dates
fixed by the City. Any action to challenge the order of the Administrative Body
shall be filed within thirty (30) business days from the date of the order.
   E.   The City shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling and removal
of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that may be necessary in
conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the buildings, including the
cost of notice and mailing.
   The City Clerk shall forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to
the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such
costs, by mail to the property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement
shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address provided for in
subsection B of this section. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs
to any property owner or mortgage holder, the City Clerk shall obtain a receipt
of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. If the City dismantles or
removes any dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not
exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for
the dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and
removal of the dilapidated buildings is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   F.   When payment is made to the City for costs incurred, the City Clerk
shall file a release of lien. If payment attributable to the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6) months from
the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property, the
City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
County Treasurer. Once certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be
made to the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this article.
The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer
as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the
interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from
and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the
County Clerk. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the County. If the
County Treasurer and the City agree that the County Treasurer is unable to
collect the assessment, the City may pursue a civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon including an action in personam against
the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the
property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this article. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall
forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. 2019 Code; Ord.
05112020-05, 5-11-2020)
5-1A-2: ADMINISTRATIVE BODY; ABATEMENT ORDER:
   A.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
Administrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner requires a majority vote of the
Administrative Body. The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the
Board of City Commissioners from any order of the administrative officer. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk
within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
   B.   Nothing in the provisions of this article shall prevent the City from
abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police
power to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the general public. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-05, 5-11-2020)
5-1A-3: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The officers, employees, or agents of the City shall not be liable for any
damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provisions of this article or as otherwise prescribed
by law. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1A-4: EXCLUSION, AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1A-5: RIGHT TO STOP CONSTRUCTION:
Any Municipal official shall have the right to stop the construction of any
building or structure, or the alteration, repair, or wrecking of the same, if
the same is being done in a careless or reckless manner, or in violation of the
provisions of this Code. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
ARTICLE B. CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Cleaning And Mowing Required
5-1B-2: Report Conditions To City
5-1B-3: Action For Abatement; Procedure
5-1B-4: Subsequent Accumulations; Summary Abatement
5-1B-5: Exclusion, Agricultural Or Railroad Property
5-1B-1: CLEANING AND MOWING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract, or parcel of
land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the City to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand, or accumulate upon such premises and it
shall be the duty of the owner and of the occupant of such premises to remove
or destroy any such trash or weeds upon the entire property including all
yards, rights-of-way, easements and alleys unless the rights-of-way, easements
and alleys are expressly designated to be maintained by a designated government
authority. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1B-2: REPORT CONDITIONS TO CITY:
Any officer or employee of the City who discovers an accumulation of trash or
growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises within
the corporate limits of the City, shall report the condition to the
Administrative Body (who shall be appointed by the Board of City Commissioners)
if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to be:
   A.   Detrimental to the health, safety, benefit, or welfare of the public
and the community;
   B.   A hazard to traffic; or
   C.   A fire hazard to property. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord.
05112020-06, 5-11-2020)
5-1B-3: ACTION FOR ABATEMENT; PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111, as amended, the City may cause
property within the City limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be
cut or mowed in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property, by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's Office, before the Administrative Body holds a hearing or
takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property
of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate,
and the notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within
ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the City and
a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the City. At the time of mailing of notice to the
property owner, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the City, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one time not less than ten (10) days prior
to any hearing or action by the City. If the City anticipates summary abatement
of a nuisance, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication, shall
state: that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and after the date of
this notice may be summarily abated by the Administrative Body; that the costs
of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be
imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner.
   B.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By
giving written consent, the owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the
City.
   C.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in subsection A of this section, the owner may request in writing
to the City Clerk, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that an accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has
caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, or welfare of
the public and the community, or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard
to the danger of property. The Administrative Body shall conduct the hearing
and determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass
has caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, or
welfare of the public and the community, or a hazard to traffic, or creates a
fire hazard to the danger of property.
   D.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, the agents of the City are granted the right of entry on
the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the City.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the City Clerk
shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the City, and stating that the City claims a lien on the
property for the cleaning and/or mowing costs.
   E.   The Administrative Body shall determine the actual cost of such
cleaning and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection
therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall
forward by mail to the property owner specified in subsection A of this section
a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and
mowing are done by the City, the cost to the property owner for the cleaning
and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and
equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract
basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   F.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, then within the next thirty (30) days, the City Clerk
shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County
Treasurer and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the
County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Once certified by the County
Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County Treasurer except as otherwise
provided for in this article. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon
shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is certified to the
County Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments, and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of
five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the County. If the County Treasurer and the
City agree that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the
City may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon by an action in personam against the property owner and an action in
rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed
from the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be
subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this article. Upon
receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer
a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
   G.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
dministrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner requires a majority vote of the
Administrative Body. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
Board of City Commissioners from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order
is rendered. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 05112020-06, 5-
11-2020)
5-1B-4: SUBSEQUENT ACCUMULATIONS; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If a notice is given by the Administrative Body to a property owner ordering
the property within the City limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass
to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided for in section
5-1B-3 of this article, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed
or grass growth on the property occurring within a six (6) month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement the
City shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten
(10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be
as provided for in section
5-1B-3 of this article. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided for in subsections
5-1B-3E and F of this article. This section shall not apply if the records of
the County Clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given
pursuant to section
5-1B-3 of this article. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-06, 5-
11-2020)
5-1B-5: EXCLUSION, AGRICULTURAL OR RAILROAD PROPERTY:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the jurisdiction of the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission. However, the Administrative Body may cause the
removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes pursuant to the provisions of this article, but only if such weeds or
trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in, or within ten (10) yards of,
the public right-of-way at intersections. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord.
05112020-06, 5-11-2020)
ARTICLE C. UNSECURED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Authority To Board And Secure Buildings
5-1C-2: Cleaning Of Trash And Weeds
5-1C-3: Action For Abatement; Procedure
5-1C-4: Exclusion, Agricultural Property
5-1C-1: AUTHORITY TO BOARD AND SECURE BUILDINGS:
After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in article A of
this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal of a
dilapidated building, the Administrative Body may authorize that such a
building be boarded and secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant
and unfit for human occupancy, the Administrative Body may authorize the
structure to be demolished pursuant to article A of this chapter. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-07, 5-11-2020)
5-1C-2: CLEANING OF TRASH AND WEEDS:
The Administrative Body may cause the premises on which an unsecured building
is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance with the provisions
of article B of this chapter. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-
07, 5-11-2020)
5-1C-3: ACTION FOR ABATEMENT; PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.1, as amended, the City may
cause an unsecured building to be boarded and secured in accordance with the
following procedure:
   A.   Before the Administrative Body orders such action, at least ten (10)
days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be
given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided in
article A of this chapter. At the time of mailing of notice to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee(s). A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property or by publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
102. Such notice shall be published one time, not less than ten (10) days prior
to any hearing or action by the Administrative Body pursuant to the provisions
of this article. If the City anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of subsection I of this section, the notice
shall state: that any subsequent need for boarding and securing the building
within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding and securing of the
building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by the
City; that the costs of such boarding and securing shall be assessed against
the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such
payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage
holder.
   B.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the
payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving written consent, the owner
waives any right the owner has to a hearing by the Administrative Body.
   C.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in subsection A of this section, the owner may request in writing
to the City Clerk, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of determining
whether the boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and
benefit the public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be held in
conjunction with a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds
or grass on the premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. In making such determination, the Administrative
Body shall apply the following standard: the Administrative Body may order the
boarding and securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing
thereof would make such building less available for transient occupation,
decrease a fire hazard created by such building, or decrease the hazard that
such building would constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making
the required determination, the Administrative Body may order the boarding and
securing of the unsecured building.
   D.   After the Administrative Body orders the boarding and securing of such
unsecured building, the City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of unsecured
building and lien with the County Clerk describing the property, stating the
findings of the City at the hearing at which such building was determined to be
unsecured, and stating that the City claims a lien on the property for the
costs of boarding and securing such building, and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing the
notice.
   E.   Pursuant to the order of the Administrative Body, the agents of the
City are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the City.
   F.   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the
Administrative Body shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including the
cost of the notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a statement of the
actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to any property owners
and mortgage holders as provided in article A of this chapter. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee(s).
If the City boards and secures any unsecured building, the cost to the property
owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, materials, and equipment
required for the performance of such actions. If such actions are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
   G.   When payment is made to the City for costs incurred, the City Clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual costs
of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer. Once certified to the County Treasurer,
payment may only be made to the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided
for in this article. At the time of collection the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property and such fee
shall be deposited to the General Fund of the County. The costs shall be levied
on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In
addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk.
The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments, and shall be prior and superior to all other titles
and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the costs and
interest are fully paid. If the County Treasurer and the City agree that the
County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the City may pursue a
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface
owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to
this article. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the
lien.
   H.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
Administrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner requires a majority vote of the
Administrative Body. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right
of appeal to the Board of City Commissioners from any order of the
administrative officer or administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after
the administrative order is rendered.
   I.   If the Administrative Body causes a structure within the City limits to
be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing within a
six (6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily boarded
and secured without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage
holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the City shall
notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and securing and
the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request
an appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the mailing of the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in subsection A of this
section. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing the cost of such boarding
and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for above.
   J.   The Administrative Body may determine that a building is unsecured and
order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner provided for in
this section even though such building has not been declared, by the
Administrative Body, to be dilapidated. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. 2019
Code; Ord. 05112020-07, 5-11-2020)
5-1C-4: EXCLUSION, AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
ARTICLE D. GRAFFITI
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Graffiti Removal; Procedure
5-1D-2: Subsequent Graffiti; Summary Abatement
5-1D-3: Removal By City
5-1D-4: Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees
5-1D-1: GRAFFITI REMOVAL; PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.2, as amended, the City may
cause graffiti to be removed from property within the City limits in accordance
with the following procedure:
   A.   The property owner and the tenant, if any, may give their written
consent to the City authorizing removal of the graffiti. By giving such written
consent, the owner and the tenant each waives the right to notice and a hearing
by the Administrative Body as otherwise required by this article.
   B.   If the consent of the property owner and the tenant, if any, to remove
graffiti from the property cannot be obtained, the City may remove the graffiti
without such consent pursuant to the procedures set forth in this article.
   C.   To remove graffiti from property without the consent of the property
owner and the tenant, if any, at least ten (10) days' notice shall be given by
mail directed to the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's office. Notice to the tenant, if any, shall be given by mail
directed to the property address. The notice shall order the property owner and
the tenant, if any, to remove graffiti from the property and shall further
state that unless such work is performed within twenty (20) days of the date of
the notice, the work shall be done by the City. At the time of mailing of
notice to the property owner and the tenant, if any, the City shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee(s). In addition, notice
shall be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property at least one
time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the City. If
the City anticipates summary abatement of graffiti, the notice shall state:
that any accumulations of graffiti on the property occurring within one year
from and after the date of the notice may be summarily abated by the
Administrative Body without a hearing and further prior notice to the property
owner or the tenant, if any, except by posting of notice at least one time on
the property not less than two (2) business days prior to such summary
abatement.
   D.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in subsection C of this section, the owner and the tenant, if any,
may request in writing to the City Clerk, a hearing to be conducted for the
purpose of contesting the determination of whether the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the property, the public,
and the community would be benefitted by removal of such conditions. The
Administrative Body shall conduct the hearing and determine whether the
condition of the property constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the
property, the public, and the community would be benefitted by removal of such
conditions
   E.   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment
or hazard, and that the property, the public, and the community would be
benefitted by removal of such conditions, the agents of the City are granted
the right of entry onto the property for the removal of the graffiti thereon
and for performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the
City.
   F.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
Administrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner/tenant requires a majority vote
of the Administrative Body. The property owner and the tenant, if any, shall
have a right of appeal to the Board of City Commissioners from any order of the
administrative officer or administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) business
days after the administrative order is rendered. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017;
amd. Ord. 05112020-08, 5-11-2020)
5-1D-2: SUBSEQUENT GRAFFITI; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If a notice is given by the Administrative Body to a property owner and tenant,
if any, ordering graffiti to be removed from property within the City limits in
accordance with the procedure provided for in section
5-1D-1 of this article, any subsequent accumulations of graffiti on the
property occurring within a one year period may be summarily abated without
further prior notice to the property owner or the tenant, if any. However,
prior to the summary abatement by the City, notice thereof shall be posted at
least one time on the property not less than two (2) business days prior to
such summary abatement. This section shall not apply if the records of the
County Clerk show that the ownership and/or tenancy of the property was
transferred after notice was given pursuant to section
5-1D-1 of this article. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-08, 5-
11-2020)
5-1D-3: REMOVAL BY CITY:
   A.   Removal of graffiti by the City pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be performed at the sole expense of the City. In removing the
graffiti, the City shall restore the property as nearly as possible to the
condition as it existed immediately prior to the graffiti being placed on the
property.
   B.   Nothing in the provisions of this article shall prevent the City from
abating graffiti as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the public. (Ord. 02062017-2,
2-6-2017)
5-1D-4: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The City and its officers, employees, and/or agents shall not be liable for any
damages or loss of property due to the removal of graffiti performed pursuant
to the provisions of this article. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
ARTICLE E. ABANDONED, WRECKED OR NONOPERATING VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Public Nuisance Declared; Exceptions
5-1E-2: Presumption Of Abandonment
5-1E-3: Removal And Impoundment; Procedure
5-1E-4: Removal From Public Property; Procedure
5-1E-5: Claiming Of Impounded Vehicle
5-1E-6: Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees
5-1E-7: City Authority To Exercise Police Power
5-1E-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm, partnership or
corporation to store, park, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of
any vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned or junked condition, whether
attended or not, upon any public or private property within the corporate
limits of the City for a period of time in excess of five (5) consecutive
calendar days. The presence of an abandoned or junked vehicle or parts thereof
on private or public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be
abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Vehicles enclosed within a building on private property;
   B.   Vehicles located on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicles are necessary to the operation of
said business; or
   C.   Vehicles located in an appropriate storage facility or depository that
is maintained by or for the City. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1E-2: PRESUMPTION OF ABANDONMENT:
A presumption shall exist that vehicles have been abandoned when:
   A.   Weed or grass undergrowth indicates to a reasonable person that the
vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur;
   B.   One or more wheels are flat or missing;
   C.   Portions of the vehicle that are needed for its operation or control
are missing;
   D.   Neighbors offer statements as to the time length such vehicle has been
standing in one place without removal, or statements that parts are taken from
or added to such vehicle which would indicate a salvage, garage, or used parts
operation;
   E.   Evidence exists that provisions of this Code pertaining to zoning or to
junkyards and salvage yards are being violated; or
   F.   No current license tag is present or visible on the vehicle. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1E-3: REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT; PROCEDURE:
The City may cause any abandoned or junked vehicle to be removed from private
property and impounded in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the City Manager,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department as the
Administrative Body to perform the functions and duties set forth in this
article. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner requires a majority vote of the
Administrative Body. The Administrative Body shall give notice of removal to
the owner of the private property where any junked vehicle or any abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or boat is located at least ten (10)
days before the City takes action. Any of the following methods shall
constitute sufficient notice to the owner of the property:
      1.   Mailing the notice to the property owner at the address shown by the
current year's tax rolls in the County Treasurer's Office; provided, that at
the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the City shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
      2.   Posting or placarding a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place
upon the private property.
      3.   Publishing the notice, as defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
102, one time.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance and
shall further state that unless such abatement is performed within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, the nuisance may be abated by the City. If the
City anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance, the notice, whether by mail,
posting or publication, shall state: that any abandoned or junked vehicles
located on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and after
the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the City; that the costs of
such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and any unrecovered
expenses incurred by the City in such removal may be added to the municipal
utility bills of the private property from which the nuisance was abated, all
without further prior notice to the property owner.
   C.   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property on which the abandoned or junked vehicle is located shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
City or its designee, the owner of the private property where the vehicle is
located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   D.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing the removal of the abandoned or junked vehicles located on the
owner's property. By giving written consent, the owner waives the owner's right
to a hearing by the City.
   E.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in subsection A of this section, the owner may request, in writing
to the City Clerk, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The Administrative Body
shall conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than
five (5) days after receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not
later than fifteen (15) days after such receipt.
   F.   In the event of a hearing, the Administrative Body shall determine
whether the abandoned or junked vehicle(s) constitute a growing blight or a
substantial detriment to the public health, safety, or welfare, and shall
determine whether the person or persons requesting such hearing are owners of
the property upon which such nuisance is located. If the Administrative Body
determines that the abandoned or junked vehicle(s) constitute a growing blight
or a substantial detriment to the public health, safety, or welfare, the
Administrative Body shall file, in writing, his findings of fact, his order
that such nuisance be abated within ten (10) days, and shall cause such
findings and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the
hearing.
   G.   An appeal from a final order of the Administrative Body made pursuant
to the provisions of this section may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by
filing with the City Clerk, within ten (10) days from the date of the
Administrative Body's final order, a written notice of appeal. The City Clerk
shall set the matter for a hearing before the Board of City Commissioners and
shall notify the appellant by registered mail of the time and date when the
matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the notice of appeal, the City Manager
shall transmit to the City Clerk all records and orders pertaining to the case.
The Board of City Commissioners, after hearing the matter in a summary manner,
may sustain, reverse, or modify the order of the City Manager.
   H.   In the event that no hearing was requested, or pursuant to a finding by
the Administrative Body or Board of City Commissioners that the abandoned or
junked vehicle(s) constitute a growing blight or a substantial detriment to the
public health, safety, or welfare and that the property would be benefitted by
the removal of such condition, the City may cause the abandoned or junked
vehicle(s) to be removed and impounded. If the abandoned or junked vehicle(s)
are not removed by the property owner within the time period specified by the
City, the agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the property for
the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the City,
and said agents shall have the right to take possession of the abandoned or
junked vehicle(s) and remove them from the premises, may cause a complaint to
be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court for violation of provisions
of this article, or both. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere,
hinder, or to refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private
property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this
section.
   I.   After abandoned or junked vehicle(s) have been removed, the
Administrative Body shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including the
cost of the notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a statement of the
actual costs attributable to the removal of abandoned or junked vehicle(s) from
the property and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to the property
owner as specified in subsection A1 of this section. At the time of mailing of
the statement of costs to the property owner, the City shall obtain a receipt
of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee(s). If the City removes the
abandoned or junked vehicle(s) from the property, the cost to the property
owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, materials, and equipment
required for the performance of such actions. If such actions are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
   J.   Upon the failure of the property owner from which abandoned vehicles
have been removed by the City to pay within thirty (30) days the unrecovered
expense incurred by the City in such removal, the amount may be added to the
municipal utility bills of the private property from which the abandoned or
junked vehicle(s) were removed, and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if collection
efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the City Clerk to the
County Treasurer who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed
against the property, until paid, and such costs shall be collected in the same
manner as ad valorem taxes assessed against the property, and when collected
shall be paid to the City. Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon
shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date
the cost is certified to the County Treasurer.
   K.   If the City causes the removal of abandoned or junked vehicle(s), any
subsequent accumulations of the same on the property occurring within a six (6)
month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated
without further notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary
abatement the Administrative Body, shall notify the property owner of the
abatement and the costs thereof. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. 2019 Code;
Ord. 05112020-09, 5-11-2020)
5-1E-4: REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY; PROCEDURE:
The City may cause abandoned or junked vehicles to be removed from public
property within the City limits in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Whenever it comes to the attention of any City official or employee
that any abandoned or junked vehicle may exist as a public nuisance on public
property in the City, the City official or employee shall immediately notify
the Waurika Police Department. Upon investigation by a certified law
enforcement officer and upon a determination by the certified law enforcement
officer that said vehicle is abandoned or a nuisance existing on public
property, the appropriate City officials shall attempt to notify, by certified
mail, the registered owner of the vehicle, stating that the vehicle appears to
be in violation of this Code, and that the owner has forty eight (48) hours
from the receipt of such notice to remove the vehicle. Should the City
officials be unable to serve notice upon the owner, a notice containing similar
provisions shall be conspicuously affixed to the abandoned vehicle instead, at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the required time of compliance.
Concurrent with the abatement notice mailed or placed on the vehicle, a
complaint may be filed against the vehicle owner in the Municipal Court for
violation of provisions of this Code.
   B.   If an investigating law enforcement officer has reasonable cause to
believe a vehicle has been abandoned in a location which would be hazardous to
the free flow of traffic or be highly susceptible to damage from vandalism or
other harm, said officer shall have the authority to remove or direct the
removal of the vehicle immediately. At the time of ordering the removal of an
abandoned vehicle, the authorizing officer shall also determine the sale value
of the vehicle and certify that amount on the removal order.
   C.   The City shall notify the State Department of Public Safety within
seventy two (72) hours of the impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to this
section. The notice of impoundment shall contain the name and address of the
owner, if known, the make, model, vehicle identification number, registration
number, date stored, place stored and the estimated value of the vehicle as
determined by the officer. This subsection shall not be construed to create any
civil liability upon the City, any agency of the City or employee thereof for
failure to provide such notice to the owner or lienholder.
   D.   After the removal or storage of any abandoned or junked vehicle
pursuant to this section, the registered or legal owner of the vehicle, or
their agent, may contest the validity of the removal or storage, by filing a
written request for a hearing with the Administrative Body. The written request
may be filed before or after the vehicle is retrieved from the storage
operator. Provided, however, the City shall not be required to conduct a
hearing if the request is received more than ten (10) days following actual or
constructive notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that said vehicle has
been so removed or stored. Any such hearing shall be scheduled within seventy
two (72) hours of the request, excluding weekends and holidays.
   E.   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the junk
vehicle or other abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle or
boat, on public property shall be liable for all expenses reasonably incurred
by the removal and disposition. Costs shall be assessed and collected in the
same manner as in section
5-1E-3 of this article. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017; amd. Ord. 05112020-09, 5-
11-2020)
5-1E-5: CLAIMING OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE:
   A.   The Chief of Police, his designee, or other appropriate official is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left on any public way
within the City which has been determined to be in violation of this article or
abandoned, stolen or unclaimed. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 901 et
seq.
   B.   The owner of any vehicle so removed may regain possession thereof by
making application to the City within thirty (30) days after its removal,
verifying ownership and current registration. The owner shall reimburse the
City for all towing and storage costs which shall have accrued to such vehicle
prior to regaining possession. If the vehicle is not reclaimed within thirty
(30) days, it may be sold without further notice. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1E-6: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The City and its officers, employees, and/or agents shall not be liable for any
damages or loss of property due to the removal and storage of abandoned or
junked vehicle(s) performed pursuant to the provisions of this article. (Ord.
02062017-2, 2-6-2017)
5-1E-7: CITY AUTHORITY TO EXERCISE POLICE POWER:
Nothing in the provisions of this article shall prevent the City from
exercising its police power to protect the health, safety, or general welfare.
Nothing in the provisions of this article shall prevent the City from causing a
vehicle to be impounded pursuant to title 7, chapter 7 of this Code or under
the authority of any other applicable ordinance or law. (Ord. 02062017-2, 2-6-
2017)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Contagious Diseases
5-2-2: Sanitary Facilities
5-2-3: Abandonment Of Refrigerators Or Iceboxes In Places Accessible To
Children
5-2-4: Penalty
5-2-1: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES:
   A.   Exposing Oneself Or Another With Contagious Disease In Public Place:
Every person who wilfully exposes himself or another person, being affected
with any contagious disease, in any public place or thoroughfare, except in his
necessary removal in a manner not dangerous to the public health, is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   B.   Reports Of Disease:
      1.   The State Board of Health shall promulgate rules and regulations
establishing a system of reporting of cases of diseases diagnosed or detected
by practicing physicians and/or clinical laboratories which come within the
purview of this section. A reporting system established by the board shall be
applicable to penal and eleemosynary institutions. Failure or refusal to report
diseases as required by the board shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      2.   It shall be the duty of each County or local Health Officer to
report the existence of disease in his jurisdiction, as may be required by
rules and regulations of the State Board of Health.
   C.   Quarantine:
      1.   Whenever a County or local Health Officer determines or suspects
that a person has been exposed to and may be incubating a communicable disease
of public health concern, the County or local Health Officer may impose a
quarantine upon such person and require such person to remain out of public
contact and in the place or premises where such person usually stays. Notice
thereof shall be given in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
State Board of Health. It shall be unlawful for such person, or any other
person, to violate the terms or conditions of the quarantine.
      2.   Whenever a County or local Health Officer determines or suspects
that a person has a communicable disease of public health concern, the County
or local Health Officer may impose isolation upon such person and require such
person to remain out of public contact and in an adequate treatment facility or
in the place or premises where such person usually stays. Notice thereof shall
be given in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Board of
Health. It shall be unlawful for such person, or any other person, to violate
the terms or conditions of the isolation.
      3.   District Courts shall be authorized to grant injunctive relief,
including temporary injunctions and temporary restraining orders, to compel
compliance with a quarantine or isolation order issued by a County or local
Health Officer pursuant to this section.
   D.   Removal Of Diseased Persons Authorized: A County or local Health
Officer may cause any person in his jurisdiction, found to be infected with a
communicable disease, to be removed to a hospital or other place for the
reception of infected persons, unless such person be sick in his own place of
residence or cannot be moved without danger to his life. (2007 Code §§ 9-1, 9-
2, 9-3; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-2: SANITARY FACILITIES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times. (2007 Code § 9-10)
   B.   Owner To Provide Proper Toilet Facilities:
      1.   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate, shall install, equip and maintain adequate sanitary
facilities for the disposal of human excrement; this requirement shall include
a sanitary water closet or closets, or a water closet or closets connected to
an approved septic tank.
      2.   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within three hundred feet (300') of any
Municipal Sanitary Sewer System line and accessible thereto. It shall be the
duty of every owner of property so located to connect, or cause to be
connected, his toilet(s) with the Municipal Sanitary Sewer System, and to make
every proper connection so that each toilet is properly connected with said
Municipal Sewer System.
      3.   When not so located, the closet or toilet shall be of: a) the
sanitary water closet type, so connected to a sanitary sewer (notwithstanding
the distance from it); or b) the water closet type, connected to a septic tank
approved by the County Health Officer. (2007 Code § 9-11)
   C.   Proper Disposal Of Human Excrement Required: All human excrement shall
be disposed of by deposition in closets of the type hereinbefore described. It
shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit the disposal of human
excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of human
excrement in any other manner. (2007 Code § 9-12)
   D.   Unauthorized Facilities Public Nuisances: All facilities for the
disposal of human excrement in a manner different from that required by this
Code, and all privies and closets so constructed, situated or maintained as to
endanger the public health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and may
be dealt with, and abated, as such (see chapter 1 of this title). (2007 Code §
9-13)
5-2-3: ABANDONMENT OF REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES IN PLACES ACCESSIBLE TO
CHILDREN:
Any person, firm or corporation who abandons or discards, in any place
accessible to children, any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest, of a capacity
of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or
door which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or
who, being the owner, lessee, or manager of such place, knowingly permits such
abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain in such
condition, shall be deemed negligent as a matter of law and shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisoned not more than sixty (60) days, or be
so fined and imprisoned. (2007 Code § 9-30; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any City ordinance,
or maintains or permits to continue, any public nuisance as defined by this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 9-50; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS AND ADVERTISEMENTS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Placing Signs Or Advertisements; Consent Required
5-3-2: Decorations Or Signs On City Poles Or Fixtures
5-3-3: Garage Sale Signs
5-3-4: Violation; Fine
5-3-1: PLACING SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS; CONSENT REQUIRED:
Except as may be stated hereinafter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
business, or corporation to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark, write
or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill, placard,
device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk,
bridge, viaduct, post, automobile or other property of another, without the
consent of the owner thereof. (Ord. 100614-2, 10-6-2014)
5-3-2: DECORATIONS OR SIGNS ON CITY POLES OR FIXTURES:
No decorations or signs shall be placed on City utility poles or City fixtures
without the authorization of the City Commission, which authorization shall
also provide the period of time that the decorations or signs may remain on the
City utility poles. It also shall be deemed a violation of this chapter if the
decorations or signs are not removed within the time provided by the City
Commission. (Ord. 100614-2, 10-6-2014)
5-3-3: GARAGE SALE SIGNS:
   A.   Consent from the City is not necessary to place or post garage sale
signs or yard sale signs.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to leave garage sale signs and yard sale signs
posted or placed on any City or public property more than twenty four (24)
hours following the garage sale or the yard sale. (Ord. 100614-2, 10-6-2014)
5-3-4: VIOLATION; FINE:
A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars
($50.00) plus costs. (Ord. 100614-2, 10-6-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
5-4-1: Fireworks Use And Sale
5-4-2: Explosives
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: FIREWORKS USE AND SALE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation
to possess, sell or to discharge, ignite, or in any manner aid, assist or abet
in the discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size, type or
description, sky rockets, pistols, torpedoes, roman candles, flash salutes,
flash crackers, balloons or other fireworks or substances designed and intended
for pyrotechnic display, or small display ground pieces, canes, cap pistols,
cannons or other appliances using caps containing chlorate or potash mixture
within the corporate limits of the City.
   B.   The sale of such fireworks may, however, be permitted within any area
specifically designated by the City Commission by motion; provided, further,
that the City Commission may order or permit public display of fireworks by
properly qualified individuals, under the direction of experts in the handling
of such fireworks. (2007 Code § 7-20)
5-4-2: EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to store, keep or have
on their premises or in their possession, any explosive materials of any kind
or nature without first having complied with the laws of the State of Oklahoma
for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such articles.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any explosive on
any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or school. Any person storing
explosives for sale to the general public must comply with the laws of the
State of Oklahoma concerning the sale and storage of said explosives. (2007
Code § 7-21)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 7-50; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Appointments
6-1-2: Powers And Duties
6-1-3: Compensation
6-1-4: Mutual Aid
6-1-5: Unclaimed Property
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Appointment And Removal Of Police Chief; Law Enforcement Assistance:
There is hereby created a Police Department for the City, the head of which
shall be the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the
City Manager, with a term of office running until such services are terminated
by death, resignation, removal by the City Manager or other legal manner. Law
enforcement assistance may also be provided, as a Municipal service, on a
contractual basis.
   B.   Appointment And Removal Of Police Officers: One or more police officers
may be appointed by the City Manager. Said police officers may be removed by
the City Manager. (2007 Code § 1-23)
6-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall possess the powers,
and be subject to the liabilities possessed and conferred by law upon Sheriffs,
in executing the orders of the City Commission, or enforcing this Code. All
police officers shall be considered officers of the City.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or all police officers
to bring to justice all violators of Municipal ordinances and Federal and State
laws, and to turn such violators over to the proper authorities. The Chief of
Police shall serve all warrants, writs, executions and other processes,
properly directed and delivered.
   C.   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall perform all other
duties prescribed by law or ordinance. (2007 Code § 1-23)
6-1-3: COMPENSATION:
The Chief of Police and each police officer shall be paid such compensation as
the City Commission may prescribe by motion or resolution. (2007 Code § 1-23)
6-1-4: MUTUAL AID:
   A.   The Chief of Police, or a designated representative, is authorized to
direct that any regularly employed police officers of the City may provide law
enforcement assistance to another municipality, County government or the
Oklahoma Highway Patrol in an emergency; provided, that a written request from
an official representative of the other municipality has been received and
approved by the City of Waurika.
   B.   While serving in said capacity, the City shall provide salaries and may
provide insurance, etc. The police officer may work under an agreement approved
by the City Commission that causes their benefits to be different from that of
other City employees.
   C.   The Mayor, Police Chief or the City Manager is also authorized to
request law enforcement assistance from other municipalities, in emergency
situations. In such cases, the assisting police officers of the other
municipalities shall have all of the same powers and duties as fully as if
employed by the City; however, salaries, insurance and other benefits shall not
be paid by the City of Waurika.
   D.   In all events, the police officers of the City shall return to their
regular duties when directed to do so by the Waurika Police Chief, or the
Police Chief (or authorized representative) of the requesting municipality,
whichever direction occurs first.
   E.   When the Waurika Police Chief shall direct, the assisting police
officers of the other municipalities shall return to their own regularly
scheduled duties in their own municipalities, and those assisting police
officers shall cease to have the powers and duties of police officers regularly
employed by the City of Waurika. (2007 Code § 1-23)
6-1-5: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
Personal property, money or legal tender which has come into the possession of
the City Police Department shall be held and disposed of in accordance with 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 34-104:
   A.   Authority; Conditions Allowing For Disposal: The Chief of Police is
authorized to dispose of personal property, money, or legal tender which has
come into the possession of the Police Department in any manner, if:
      1.   The owner of the personal property, money, or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
      2.   The property, money, or legal tender has been in the custody of the
Police Department for at least ninety (90) days; and
      3.   The property, money, or legal tender, or any part thereof, is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any litigation.
   B.   Application To County To Conduct Sale; Hearing:
      1.   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the Jefferson
County District Court requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale
of the personal property which has a fair market value of more than its face
value. The Chief of Police shall attach to the application a list describing
the property including any identifying numbers and marks, the date the property
came into the possession of the Chief of Police, and the name of the owner and
the person in last possession, if different, and the address of the person, if
known.
      2.   The court shall set the application for hearing not less than ten
(10) days nor more than twenty (20) days after filing of the application.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: In any instance where the property has an actual or
apparent value of more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of the hearing, written notice of the hearing shall
be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each owner at the address as
listed in the application. If the owner of any property with an actual or
apparent value exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) is unable to be served
written notice by first class mail, notice shall be provided by one publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the County. The notice shall contain a
brief description of the property of the owner and the place and date of the
hearing. The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of
City notices, and at two (2) other public places in the City.
   D.   Manner Of Disposal:
      1.   If no owner appears and establishes ownership of the property at the
hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the Chief of Police to
dispose of the property as follows:
         a.   Donate the property having value of less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) to a not-for-profit corporation as defined by State law for
use by needy families;
         b.   Sell the personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after
at least five (5) days' notice of the sale has been published;
         c.   Transfer the property to a third-party agent under contract with
the City for sale by internet or other electronic means, regardless of whether
the sale structure or distribution site is within the State of Oklahoma; or
         d.   By any other means as determined appropriate by the court,
including, but not limited to, destruction.
      2.   Regardless of the means of disposition, the Chief of Police shall
make a return of the donation or sale and the order of the court confirming the
donation or sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or
purchaser. After payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of
money received from the sale of the personal property shall be deposited in the
Municipal General Fund.
   E.   Procedure For Deposit Of Money Or Legal Tender To Municipal General
Fund:
      1.   All monies or legal tender which has come into the possession of the
Police Department pursuant to the circumstances provided for in subsection A of
this section shall be transferred by the Chief of Police to the City Clerk for
deposit in the Municipal General Fund.
      2.   Prior to any transfer, the Chief of Police shall file an application
in the Jefferson County District Court requesting the court to enter an order
authorizing the Chief of Police to transfer the money for deposit in the
Municipal General Fund. The application shall describe the money or legal
tender, the date the same came into the possession of the Police Department,
and the name of the owner and the address of the owner, if known.
      3.   Upon filing the application, which may be joined with an application
as described in subsection B of this section, a hearing shall be set not less
than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days from the filing of the
application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided for in subsection
C of this section. The notice shall state that upon failure of anyone to appear
to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court shall order the same
to be deposited in the Municipal General Fund. The notice may be combined with
a notice to sell personal property as provided in subsection B of this section.
If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to the money or legal tender at
the hearing, the court shall order the same to be transferred to the Municipal
General Fund as provided in this subsection.
   F.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
dangerous or deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any
property of any kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by
law. By order of the trial court, any property filed as an exhibit or held by
the City shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant to the conditions
prescribed in the order. (2007 Code § 1-23; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established; Membership; Bylaws
6-2-2: Fire Chief
6-2-3: Assistant Fire Chief And Other Officers
6-2-4: State Firefighters Retirement And Pension System, Participation
6-2-5: Enforcement Of Fire Prevention Code; Variances
6-2-6: Rural Fire Protection
6-2-6-1: Additional Fire Protection Provisions Outside City Limits
6-2-7: Intergovernmental Cooperation Authorized
6-2-8: Penalty
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; BYLAWS:
   A.   Department Established: There is hereby established for the City a
Volunteer Fire Department under the provisions of the Oklahoma Volunteer
Firemen's Act. (2007 Code § 7-1)
   B.   Composition: The Waurika, Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department shall
consist of not less than twelve (12) and not more than twenty five (25)
members. The department shall not employ more than two (2) full time, salaried
firefighters. Members of the Fire Department may continue as members of the
Volunteer Fire Department established under this Code without probation, but
shall be subject to the bylaws authorized under this Code. (2007 Code § 7-1;
amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Probation For New Members: All new members shall be on probation for
one year after their appointment to the department, and shall not become
regular members of the department upon completion of their probation period
until approval by a majority of the regular members of the Volunteer Fire
Department, subject to the ratification of the City Commission.
   D.   Bylaws: The Volunteer Fire Department shall adopt bylaws (a copy of
which shall be deposited with the City Clerk), which shall include the
following:
      1.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond
to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
      2.   All volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
      3.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
(2007 Code § 7-1)
      4.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in a
period of three (3) months will be expelled from the department rolls.
      5.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the City for an extended period of
time shall notify the Fire Chief in advance.
      6.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes will
be expelled from the rolls.
      7.   Any volunteer of the Fire Department shall be expelled from the
rolls upon the recommendation of the Fire Chief, for any of the following
offenses: a) conduct unbecoming a firefighter, b) insubordination, c) neglect
of duty, d) violation of rules and regulations governing the department, or e)
conviction of a felony. (2007 Code § 7-1; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Copies Submitted To State Insurance Commissioner: Copies of this Code
and any amendments relating to the Volunteer Fire Department shall be submitted
to the State Insurance Commissioner. (2007 Code § 7-1)
6-2-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Term Of Office: There is hereby created the Office of
Chief of the Fire Department, who shall be appointed by the City Manager, with
a term of office until such services are terminated by death, resignation,
removal by said City Manager or other legal manner.
   B.   Duties: Duties of the Fire Chief shall include:
      1.   The Fire Chief shall have supervision and control of the Fire
Department, subject to State law, the provisions of this chapter, other
ordinances of the City and the City Commission; the Fire Chief shall diligently
perform the duties imposed by law and ordinance.
      2.   The Fire Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition
and efficient operation of the Fire Department and the training of members, and
may assign duties to other members of said department.
      3.   The Fire Chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of
the department, the fire hydrants and water supply sources of the City at least
once each year.
      4.   The Fire Chief should maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection.
      5.   The Fire Chief shall attend all fires and direct and have complete
charge of the officers and members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duties.
      6.   The Fire Chief should ensure that the City Commission and the City's
citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the community and on the
activities of the Fire Department.
      7.   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case.
      8.   The Fire Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel and other information about
the work of the Fire Department.
      9.   The Fire Chief shall file the appropriate fire loss reporting forms
with the Office of the State Fire Marshal, as required by current State law.
(2007 Code § 1-26)
6-2-3: ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF AND OTHER OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment Of Assistant Chief; Duties: The Assistant Chief of the Fire
Department shall be appointed by the City Manager. In the absence of the Fire
Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall command the Fire Department and be held
responsible therefor in all respects, with the full powers and responsibilities
of the Fire Chief. (2007 Code § 1-27)
   B.   Selection Of Officers:
      1.   The officers of the Fire Department shall be selected upon their
leadership ability and their knowledge of firefighting and firefighting
equipment. (2007 Code § 1-27; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be
Secretary-Treasurer; duties shall consist of calling the roll at each meeting,
keeping the minutes of each meeting and collecting any money due said
department by the members. (2007 Code § 1-27)
6-2-4: STATE FIREFIGHTERS RETIREMENT AND PENSION SYSTEM, PARTICIPATION:
The Volunteer Fire Department of the City shall be subject to all of the
provisions of the Oklahoma State Firefighters Retirement and Pension Act, all
of the provisions of which are hereby accepted by the City for the use and
benefit of its Volunteer Fire Department, which shall also be subject to all of
the obligations thereunder. (2007 Code § 1-140; amd. 2019 Code)
6-2-5: ENFORCEMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE; VARIANCES:
   A.   Fire Prevention Code Enforcement: The Fire Prevention Code adopted by
the City Commission shall be enforced by the Volunteer Fire Department, under
the supervision of the Fire Chief; members of said department may be detailed
as inspectors by the Fire Chief, if it is deemed necessary.
   B.   Power To Grant Variances: The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department,
with the approval of the City Commission, shall have the power to grant a
variance to any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee (or a duly authorized agent), when there are
practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of said code;
provided, that the spirit of the Fire Prevention Code shall be observed, public
safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Fire Chief
thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy
shall be furnished the applicant. (2007 Code § 7-2)
6-2-6: RURAL FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Authorization For Rural Fire Services; Right-Of-Way:
      1.   The City is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts
or agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the State for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the City, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and Municipal subdivisions of the State.
      2.   Any contract entered into by the City with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation or private or nonprofit association, for outside aid
or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said owner,
firm, private corporation, private or nonprofit association, or political
subdivision to the City for such fire apparatus and personnel. All monies
received from said calls shall go into the fund designated by motion of the
City Commission.
      3.   The Fire Department of the City is hereby authorized and directed to
answer all outside calls within a distance of five (5) miles from the nearest
fire station, unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do
so on account of another fire in the City, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions. All other responses shall be
at the direction of the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. (2007 Code § 7-10)
      4.   All firefighters of the Fire Department attending or serving at
fires, or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of the City,
shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if
they were serving within the corporate limits of the City, and said
firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any Firefighters Pension
and Retirement Fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire
prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the City of
Waurika. (2007 Code § 7-10; amd. 2019 Code)
      5.   The Fire Department answering any fire alarm or call, or performing
any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the City shall be
considered as an agent of the State of Oklahoma, and acting solely and alone in
a governmental capacity, and the City shall not be liable in damages for any
act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning from any
fire or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of
subsection A1, A2, A3 or A4 of this section.
      6.   All motorized equipment of the Fire Department shall have the right-
of-way over all other commercial and pleasure vehicles. (2007 Code § 7-10)
   B.   Charges For Fire Calls:
      1.   The City Commission shall charge such rates as set by resolution of
such commission to persons or property owners involved, for fire calls outside
the corporate boundaries of the City.
      2.   Mileage and distances shall be based on actual miles traveled. The
City shall also have the capacity to prepare supplemental billing costs for use
of special equipment or materials. (2007 Code § 7-11)
   C.   Rural Fire Service Established; Fees:
      1.   There is hereby established the "Waurika Rural Fire Service", to be
operated by the Waurika Volunteer Fire Department and be under the direction of
the City Commission.
      2.   The "Waurika Rural Fire Service" shall be operated primarily for the
purpose of providing fire protection to rural residents living outside of the
corporate limits of the City, but within the boundaries of the Waurika School
District within a ten (10) mile radius of the City's corporate limits. (2007
Code § 7-12)
      3.   This service shall be provided upon the annual payment of a
membership fee by each participating home or property owner or resident. The
annual membership fee amount shall be set by resolution of the City Commission.
Payment of the annual membership fee will take care of all fire calls for the
paying members, regardless of the number of calls. (2007 Code § 7-12; amd. 2019
Code)
      4.   The costs of fire calls to rural residents who are not paying
members of the "Rural Fire Service" shall be the same as the costs established
in subsection B of this section.
      5.   Payment of claims and other financial transactions involving the use
of funds derived from the "Rural Fire Service" shall be made and processed in
accordance with the requirements of Oklahoma Statutes, City ordinances and
accepted City procedures.
      6.   In the performance of fire prevention or protection services outside
the corporate limits of the City, the Volunteer Fire Department shall not
assume responsibility for damages to structures incurred prior to the arrival
of the said department, nor shall the said department assume responsibility for
damages to structures incurred as a result of late notification of the members
of the said department, or for any other situation which occurs during the
course of fighting any fire.
      7.   Unpaid fees, charges or annual membership may be subject to
collection by the City in any manner normally employed by the City, including
the use of Small Claims Court. (2007 Code § 7-12)
6-2-6-1: ADDITIONAL FIRE PROTECTION PROVISIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Authority To Enter Into Contracts Or Agreements: The City is hereby
authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or agreements with
individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or political
subdivisions of the State of Oklahoma for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the City, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and Municipal subdivisions of the State.
   B.   Payment Of Fees And Charges: Any contract entered into by the City with
an individual owner, firm, private corporation, or association, for outside
aid, or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said
owner, firm, private corporation, or association, or political subdivision to
the City for such fire apparatus and personnel at the rate as set out in
attachment A, attached to Ordinance 04082019-03, on file in the Office of the
City Clerk, All monies received from said calls shall go into the "Rural Fire
Fund for Replacing Equipment".
   C.   Answering Outside Calls: The Fire Department of the City is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls within a distance of twenty
(20) miles from the nearest fire station; unless, in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the City,
broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other physical
conditions.
   D.   Benefits Of Firefighters: All firefighters of the Fire Department of
the City attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside
the corporate limits of the City of Waurika, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the City of Waurika, and said
firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any Firefighters Pension
and Retirement Fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire
prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the City.
   E.   City Fire Department Considered Agent Of State: The Fire Department of
the City, answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire prevention
services outside the corporate limits of the City shall be considered as an
agent of the State of Oklahoma, and acting solely and alone in a governmental
capacity, and the City shall not be liable in damages for any act of
commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning from any fire,
or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of
subsections A, B, C, and D of this section.
   F.   Right-Of-Way Of Fire Department Equipment: All motorized equipment of
the Fire Department of the City shall have the right-of-way over all other
commercial and pleasure vehicles. (Ord. 04082019-03, 5-13-2019)
6-2-7: INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The City, in an effort to improve the quality of fire protection within
the community, and to protect the health, welfare and safety of its citizens,
hereby determines that any or all members of the Fire Department are authorized
to assist the Fire Departments of Hastings, Ryan, Addington or any Jefferson
County Rural Fire Departments in protecting said areas, upon receipt of a valid
request for assistance. For purposes of this section, "request for assistance"
shall mean a request for help in an emergency situation, by the Mayor, Police
Chief, Fire Chief, dispatcher or County representative of the above entities.
Upon receipt of this request for aid, any member of the Fire Department shall
respond to said request for assistance.
   B.   In an attempt to increase the effectiveness of fire protection within
the corporate limits of the City, and to provide for the health, welfare and
safety of the citizens of the community, the City hereby authorizes any or all
Fire Department personnel of Hastings, Ryan, Addington or of Jefferson County,
to respond to a request for assistance by the City, and the Fire Department
officers extending said aid shall have full powers to act within the corporate
limits of the City while under a request for assistance. (2007 Code § 7-22)
6-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 7-50; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Emergency Management Director
6-3-3: Emergency Management Department
6-3-4: Emergency Management Advisory Committee
6-3-5: Liability
6-3-6: Acceptance Of Federal, State Or Private Aid
6-3-7: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (Sometimes Referred To As CIVIL DEFENSE): The preparation
for, and carrying out of, all emergency functions, other than functions for
which primary responsibility is assigned elsewhere by Federal, State or local
law or ordinance, to protect the public peace, health and safety and to
preserve lives and property in the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, during an
emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or
from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm or other
catastrophe in or near said community, and involving imminent or actual peril
to life and property. These functions include administration, organization,
planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare service, relief
service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue service, medical
service, health service, transportation service, communications service, street
service, utilities service, general engineering service, plant protection
service, supply service, mutual aid, mobile support, evacuation and all other
functions necessary or incidental to the preparation for any carrying out of
the foregoing functions.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP): The plan which sets forth the organization,
administration and functions for emergency management.
ENEMY-CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States and
involving imminent peril to lives and property in the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist only when the Mayor shall so
declare by public proclamation and such emergency shall be deemed to exist
until the aforesaid Mayor shall declare its termination by public proclamation,
or until the City Commission shall declare its termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm or other catastrophe in or
near the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, and involving imminent peril to lives and
property. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under
the same conditions as prescribed for an "enemy-caused emergency". (2007 Code §
6-10; amd. 2019 Code)
6-3-2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR:
   A.   The position of Emergency Management Director is hereby created, to be
appointed by the City Manager.
   B.   The Emergency Management Director shall be the executive head of the
Emergency Management Department and shall be responsible for all aspects of
emergency in the City, including: conducting a hazard analysis detailing risks
and vulnerabilities, annually updating the existing all-hazard Emergency
Operations Plan (EOP), conducting and arranging for necessary training of all
relevant personnel, conducting annual exercises to evaluate the plan, managing
resources, determining shortfalls in equipment, personnel and training,
revising the EOP as necessary, establishing and maintaining an office of
emergency management, communications, warnings, conducting or supervising
damage assessment and other pre- and post-disaster-related duties.
   C.   The Emergency Management Director shall also have the authority and
responsibility to:
      1.   Form an organization to prepare and implement an Emergency
Management Program;
      2.   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      3.   Appoint the Chairman of such committees;
      4.   Cooperate with other emergency management agencies; and
      5.   Formulate plans, gather information and maintain records for the
Emergency Management Department.
   D.   The Emergency Management Director may be reimbursed for expenses
incurred in the performance of official duties; provided, that such expenses
are at the direction of, and approved by, the City Manager.
   E.   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Emergency Management Director, after authorization from the
Mayor, shall have the authority to enforce all regulations relating to
emergency management, for the purpose of protecting residents of the City.
(2007 Code § 1-34; amd. 2019 Code)
6-3-3: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT:
   A.   There is hereby established an Emergency Management Department under
the executive branch of the Municipal government, which shall consist of an
Emergency Management Director and an Emergency Management Advisory Committee.
   B.   The purpose of said department shall be to be prepared for, and
function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the
people of the City, and to perform all functions necessary and incident to the
protection of the lives, health and property of the citizens of said community.
(2007 Code § 1-35; amd. 2019 Code)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall consist of the Mayor,
who shall serve as Committee Chairman, and four (4) members appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Commission. Said members shall serve at
the pleasure of the City Commission.
   B.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall select from its
members a Vice Chairman and a Secretary.
   C.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall hold such meetings as
are directed by the Mayor or the City Commission.
   D.   The function of the Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall be to
act in an advisory capacity to, and as needed or requested by, the Mayor, the
Emergency Management Director or the City Commission. (2007 Code § 1-36; amd.
2019 Code)
6-3-5: LIABILITY:
   A.   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege or otherwise
permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of such real
estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons, or providing a mass
immunization and prophylaxis site or strategic national stockpile storage site
during an actual or impending emergency or exercise shall, together with any
successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for negligently causing
the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises
for loss of, or damage to, the property of such person; provided, that the
injury or death was caused by or incidental to the actual use of such premises
for such real, actual or impending emergency or exercise, and further provided
that nothing herein contained shall grant immunity from gross, wilful or wanton
acts of negligence.
   B.   Neither the City nor any officer or employee of the City nor volunteer
whose services have been accepted and utilized by an officer or employee of the
City for carrying out the functions of the Emergency Management Department
shall be civilly liable for any loss or injury resulting to any person,
property, person's company, corporation or other legal entity as a result of
any decision, determination, order or action of the City, employee, officer, or
volunteer in the performance of assigned duties and responsibilities under the
direction of the Emergency Management Department or in the performance of
assigned duties and responsibilities under the City's EOP prior to, or during,
either an enemy-caused or a natural emergency.
   C.   Neither the City nor any officer or member of the Emergency Management
Department provided for in this chapter shall be liable for the death or injury
of any persons, or damage to property, resulting from such emergency management
activity prior to, or during, either an enemy-caused or a natural emergency.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to waive the sovereignty or
immunity of the City, or any subdivision thereof, from being sued. (2007 Code §
6-11; amd. 2019 Code)
6-3-6: ACCEPTANCE OF FEDERAL, STATE OR PRIVATE AID:
Whenever the Federal government, the State of Oklahoma, or any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the City any services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds by way of gift, grant or loan, for purposes of emergency
management, the Mayor may accept such offer and may authorize the Emergency
Management Director to receive the same, subject to the terms of the offer and
the rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer. (2007 Code §
6-12; amd. 2019 Code)
6-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 6-20)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Offense Defined
6-4-2: Oklahoma Statutes Title 21 Adopted By Reference
6-4-3: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-4-4: Aiding In An Offense
6-4-5: Effect Of Intoxication
6-4-6: Penalty
6-4-1: OFFENSE DEFINED:
An "offense" is hereby defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by this
chapter or any ordinance of the City, is prohibited, forbidden or declared to
be unlawful, or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which,
by any provision of this chapter or by any ordinance of the City, is commanded
or required to be done. (2007 Code § 13-1)
6-4-2: OKLAHOMA STATUTES TITLE 21 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Provisions of Oklahoma Statutes title 21, as amended, which are applicable to
the City, are hereby adopted and incorporated in this Code as if set out at
length herein. (2007 Code § 13-5)
6-4-3: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against this Code, and in such
attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense, but fails, is
prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the offense itself.
(2007 Code § 13-2)
6-4-4: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such, shall be guilty of an offense and punishable
in the same manner as the principal offender. (2007 Code § 13-4)
6-4-5: EFFECT OF INTOXICATION:
No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of said person being in such condition. (2007 Code § 13-3)
6-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be a
separate offense. (2007 Code § 13-100)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY AND POLICY
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Gambling Prohibited
6-4A-2: False Or Bogus Checks
6-4A-3: Harmful Deception
6-4A-4: Obstruction And Trespassing
6-4A-5: Controlled Dangerous Substances
6-4A-6: Drug Paraphernalia
6-4A-7: Immoral Conduct, Shows Or Exhibitions; Nudity
6-4A-8: Prostitution; Illicit Or Sexual Relations
6-4A-9: Conduct Prohibited On Or Near School Grounds
6-4A-10: Alcoholic Or Intoxicating Beverages
6-4A-1: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play, open
or cause to be opened, operate, carry on or conduct any game of roulette, craps
or any percentage game played with dice, for money, checks, chips, credit or
any other things of value; or shall set up, operate or permit to be operated,
any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit
or any other things of value are played, when the act of playing the same might
result in a gain or loss to the party playing; or shall gamble knowingly in any
other similar manner; or knowingly shall permit premises, houses, lots or other
property controlled by said entities, to be used in connection with or for, any
act declared unlawful in this chapter. (2007 Code § 13-10)
6-4A-2: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
   A.   The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include checks or
orders, including those converted to electronic fund transfer, which are not
honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same or because
the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent account
when such checks or orders are given:
      1.   In exchange for money or property;
      2.   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value;
      3.   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof; or
      4.   As payment made to a landlord under a lease or rental agreement.
   B.   The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest
fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for payment; and
provided, further, that the check or order is presented for payment within
thirty (30) days after same is delivered and accepted.
   C.   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is refused
by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the seller
of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
   D.   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account of
the maker with the merchant shall mean "a check or order given in exchange for
a benefit or thing of value", notwithstanding that the merchant may debit the
account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in the
event the check or order is not honored. (2007 Code § 13-11; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4A-3: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise), when such deception results in,
or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party, or results in, or contributes to, the benefit of the deceiver.
(2007 Code § 13-12)
6-4A-4: OBSTRUCTION AND TRESPASSING:
   A.   Sleeping In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person, without
lawful reason, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M., to sleep upon any street or in any other public place, or
on any property of another person without the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge of such place.
   B.   Trespassing In Public Buildings, Public Transportation Carriers, Or
Schools: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to or trespass
in or about any public building, in or about the station or depot of a public
transportation carrier, or on or about the premises of a public or private
school.
   C.   Remaining In Vicinity Of Gambling: No person shall be or remain in the
immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling by the use of any
means or device.
   D.   Obstructing Public Ways Or Places: It shall be unlawful for any person
to stand or remain, either alone or in consort with others, in a public place
or building, in such a manner as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other public
place or building by hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or impede the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians; or
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other
public place or building, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein,
thereon and thereto. (2007 Code § 13-13)
6-4A-5: CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE: Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor
included in schedule I through V of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances
Act 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101 et seq., including, but not limited to:
      1.   Hallucinogenic substances including mescaline, psilocybin, and
various types of methoxyamphetamines;
      2.   Stimulants such as amphetamines and methamphetamines; or
      3.   Barbiturates and other depressants such as amobarbital,
secobarbital, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, methoqualone, phencyclidine, and
diazepam.
   MARIJUANA (Also Referred To As MARIHUANA): All parts of the plant Cannabis
Sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from
any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin. This definition shall
not include:
      1.   The mature stalks of such plant or fiber produced from such stalks;
      2.   Oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, including cannabidiol
derived from the seeds of the marijuana plant;
      3.   Any other compound, manufacture, sale, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
including cannabidiol derived from mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake;
      4.   The sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination;
or
      5.   Any other exception specifically excluded from the definition of
"marihuana" under the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act.
   PERSON: Individual, corporation or agency, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership or association.
   PRACTITIONER: 1. A physician, dentist, podiatrist, veterinarian, scientific
investigator or other person licensed, registered or otherwise permitted to
distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to, use for scientific
purposes, or administer a controlled dangerous substance in the course of
professional practice or research in this State; or
      2.   A pharmacy, hospital, laboratory or other institution licensed,
registered or otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research
with respect to, use for scientific purposes, or administer a controlled
dangerous substance in the course of professional practice or research in this
State.
Terms not specifically defined in this subsection but used within this section
shall be defined by the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101 et seq.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To knowingly or intentionally possess any narcotic, marijuana, or
any controlled dangerous substance in any place within the City unless such
substance was obtained directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order,
from a practitioner, while acting in the course of his or her professional
practice;
      2.   To use any narcotic, marijuana, or other controlled dangerous
substance upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public
place;
      3.   To use any narcotic, marijuana, or other controlled dangerous
substance in any place within the City unless such substance was obtained
directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order, from a practitioner,
while acting in the course of his or her professional practice;
      4.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of any narcotic, marijuana, or
other controlled dangerous substance;
      5.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person any narcotic,
marijuana, or other controlled dangerous substance; or
      6.   To loiter about a place where any narcotic, marijuana, or other
controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished illegally. (Ord. 08232017-
5, 8-23-2017)
   C.   Exception: This section shall not be applicable to commercial
businesses authorized to sell, grow, or manufacture medical marijuana pursuant
to State law and title 4, chapter 3 of this Code, when performed in the normal
course of business. (2019 Code)
6-4A-6: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "drug paraphernalia" means
all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for
use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the State Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, section 2-101 et seq., of 63 Oklahoma Statutes,
hereinafter referred to as "the Act", and adopted by reference herein. It
includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as: (Ord. 08232017-5, 8-23-2017)
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chiller. (Ord. 08232017-5, 8-23-2017; amd. 2019
Code)
      13.   All hidden or novelty pipes; and
      14.   Any pipe that has a tobacco bowl or chamber of less than one-half
inch (1/2") in diameter in which there is any detectable residue of any
controlled dangerous substance as defined in this section or any other
substances not legal for possession or use;
Provided, however, the term "drug paraphernalia" shall not include separation
gins intended for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps used for constructing
electrical equipment, water pipes designed for ornamentation in which no
detectable amount of an illegal substance is found or pipes designed and used
solely for smoking tobacco, traditional pipes of an American Indian tribal
religious ceremony, or antique pipes that are thirty (30) years of age or
older.
   B.   Determining Factors: In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to all
other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Act;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as
to a direct violation of the Act shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   Use: It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Act.
   D.   Selling: It is unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, or possess
with intent to deliver, or manufacture with intent to sell or deliver, drug
paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Act.
   E.   Advertising: It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill, or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   F.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not be applicable to medical or veterinary
practitioners to the extent such paraphernalia is used as a part of their
lawful practice of the profession. For the purposes of this section,
"practitioner" means:
         a.   A physician, dentist, podiatrist, veterinarian, scientific
investigator, or other person who is authorized by State or Federal law to
distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to, use for scientific
purposes or administer a controlled dangerous substance in the course of
professional practice or research in this State; or
         b.   A pharmacy, hospital, laboratory, or other institution authorized
by State or Federal law to distribute, dispense, or conduct research with
respect to use for scientific purposes or administer marijuana or a controlled
dangerous substance in the course of a registered professional practice or
research in this State.
      2.   This section shall not be applicable to the possession, sale, or
distribution of paraphernalia by persons involved in the medical or veterinary
equipment supply business, where such possession, sale, or distribution is a
necessary and appropriate part of servicing lawful medical or veterinary
practitioners and such possession, sale, or distribution is within the normal
course of business and performed in such a manner as provided by law. (Ord.
08232017-5, 8-23-2017)
      3.   This section shall not be applicable to commercial businesses,
persons, or products permitted by State and local laws pursuant to the rules
and regulations delineated in title 4, chapter 3 of this Code. (2019 Code)
6-4A-7: IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description, exhibition,
presentation, or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct,
or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance, taken as a whole,
has the following characteristics:
      1.   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance has a predominant tendency to
appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors; and
      2.   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance depicts or describes nudity, sexual
conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is patently offensive to
prevailing standards in the adult community with respect to what is suitable
for minors; and
      3.   The material or performance lacks serious literacy, scientific,
artistic, or political value for minors.
   MATERIAL: Any photograph, book, magazine, pamphlet, story, comic book,
paper, writing, card, advertisement, circular, print, picture, motion picture
film, play, act, image, cast, slide, figure, instrument, statue, drawing, or
other like article; or any disc record, metal, plastic or wax, wire or tape
recording, or other like articles.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering; the showing of female breasts
with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of
the nipple, except for the purpose of breastfeeding; or the depiction of
covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: Includes material which, to the average person applying
contemporary community standards, would mean that:
      1.   The work taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest; and
      2.   In a patently offensive way depicts or describes nudity, sexual
conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse; and
      3.   Which, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PUBLIC INDECENCY: Includes any person who knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place:
      1.   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      2.   Appears in a state of nudity in places not intended for such
purpose;
      3.   Fondles the genitals of himself or another person; or
      4.   Engages in actions that simulate an act or acts of sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, or masturbation.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Includes any of the following:
      1.   A place to which the general public has a right to resort, not
necessarily a place devoted solely to the uses of the public, but a place which
is, in a point of fact, public, rather than private, a place visited by many
persons and usually accessible to the neighboring public, even if only the
payment of a fee;
      2.   Any place so situated that materials can be seen by any considerable
number of persons if they happen to look;
      3.   A place in which the public has an interest as affecting the safety,
health, morals, and welfare of the community; a place exposed to the public and
where the public gather together or pass to and fro; or
      4.   Any store, restaurant, movie theater, service station, or the like,
which is open to the public for sale of goods and/or services or other
products, even though privately owned and/or controlled.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts, whether normal, perverted, actual or simulated, of
masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sexual stimulation or arousal; physical
contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or
breasts; or visibility of excretory functions in relation to lewd exhibition of
the genitals.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to facilitate or display obscene shows,
exhibitions, or concerts within the City.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit, participate, or offer
to participate in the production, sale, exhibition, display, publication, or
distribution of any obscene material in a public place.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in
a state of nudity or for any person to exhibit public indecency within the
City.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person having custody, supervision, or
control of any commercial establishment to publicly display materials harmful
to minors in such a way that minors, as part of the invited general public,
will be exposed to view such material within the corporate limits of the City;
provided, however a person shall be deemed not to have "displayed" material
harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices common known as
"blinder racks" so that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the material is not
exposed to view.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any
publicly exposed place within the corporate limits of the City. (2007 Code §
13-15; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4A-8: PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT OR SEXUAL RELATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "illicit sexual relations"
shall mean sexual relations with any person other than one's lawful husband or
wife.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit or give himself
or herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual relations, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral vocation, or to consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose, in any public place within the City.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any
agent or employee thereof, to keep, or assist in keeping, a house of
prostitution or a house or place within the City where persons meet or assemble
for illicit sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose.
      4.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other
person engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring or
attempt to procure, any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any
other immoral purpose. (2007 Code § 13-16)
6-4A-9: CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS:
No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein, around or on the grounds of, any school in the City, or in any street,
alley or public area adjacent to a school:
   A.   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school, an employee thereof or student therein;
   B.   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   C.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   D.   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   E.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto, in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school. (2007 Code § 13-17)
6-4A-10: ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age
to misrepresent said person's age through false documentation, for the purpose
of inducing any person to sell alcoholic beverages to said person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age
to have in their possession any alcoholic beverages, while such person is upon
any street, alley, road or highway, or in any public place within the City.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to open a retail container or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
   D.   No person drunk or in a state of intoxication shall appear, or be upon
or in, any street, alley, place of business or other public place, nor shall
any person drink any alcoholic beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of
business or other public place within the City.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon
any street, alley or other public way within the City any alcoholic beverage,
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal
of which shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the
trunk or any closed compartment or other container out of public view and out
of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to buy,
receive, possess, sell, barter, give away, manufacture or use any alcoholic
beverages in violation of the State Constitution and laws or this Code. (2007
Code § 13-18)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE AND PERSONS
SECTION:
6-4B-1: Assault And Battery
6-4B-2: Carrying Weapons; Discharging Firearms
6-4B-3: Unlawful Assembly; Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
6-4B-4: Disturbing The Peace; Harassing Phone Calls
6-4B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   An assault is any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      2.   A battery is any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the City.
      2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justifiable or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law,
while said person is performing assigned duties. (2007 Code § 13-40)
6-4B-2: CARRYING WEAPONS; DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
   A.   Carrying Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry upon or
about their person any pistol, revolver, knife, dagger, metal knuckle or other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except when doing so in the line of
duty or as may be permitted by law. (2007 Code § 13-30)
   B.   Transporting Loaded Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to
transport a loaded firearm on any public street or alley within the corporate
limits of the City, except when doing so in the line of duty, or as otherwise
permitted by law. (2007 Code § 13-30; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Discharging Firearms; Air Rifles And BB Guns: It shall be unlawful for
any person to discharge a firearm within the corporate limits of the City,
except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself or of another person or property, when otherwise authorized by State
law or ordinance, when doing so for the preservation of the peace, health or
safety of residents or the abatement of nuisances, or when engaged in
authorized hunting or other related activities; it shall also be unlawful to
discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the City in such a manner as to harm or
damage persons or property. (2007 Code § 13-30)
6-4B-3: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY; DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assembly: It shall be unlawful for three (3) or more persons
to assemble together to act in concert to do any unlawful act against the
peace, to the terror of others, to make any movement thereto or any preparation
therefor, or otherwise to assemble together for other unlawful purposes. (2007
Code § 13-31; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Disturbing Lawful Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb any lawful gathering by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper
behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either
within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof. (2007 Code §
13-31)
6-4B-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE; HARASSING PHONE CALLS:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
the peace of another or others by violent or improper conduct, by loud or
unusual noise, by unseemly, obscene, insulting, offensive or abusive language,
or by conducting oneself in a disorderly manner. (2007 Code § 13-32)
   B.   Harassment By Telephone Or Other Electronic Communication:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person who, by means of a
telecommunication or other electronic communication device, wilfully either:
         a.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
         b.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication with
intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
         c.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication,
whether or not conversation ensues, with intent to put the party called in fear
of physical harm or death;
         d.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication,
whether or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the
person making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse,
threaten, or harass any person at the called number;
         e.   Knowingly permits any telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this subsection; and
         f.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes
repeated calls or electronic communications or simultaneous calls or electronic
communications solely to harass any person at the called number(s).
      2.   As used in this section, "telecommunication" and "electronic
communication" mean any type of telephonic, electronic or radio communications,
or transmission of signs, signals, data, writings, images and sounds or
intelligence of any nature by telephone, including cellular telephones, wire,
cable, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo- optical system or the
creation, display, management, storage, processing, transmission or
distribution of images, text, voice, video or data by wire, cable or wireless
means, including the internet. The term includes:
         a.   A communication initiated by electronic mail, instant message,
network call, or facsimile machine; and
         b.   A communication made to a pager.
      3.   Use of a telephone or other electronic communications facility under
this subsection shall include all use made of such a facility between the
points of origin and reception. Any offense under this subsection is a
continuing offense and shall be deemed to have been committed at either the
place of origin or the place of reception. (2007 Code § 13-32; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Obscene Gestures: It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
demonstrate or otherwise symbolize any obscene gesture by use of said person's
extremities, toward any other human being or object within the corporate limits
of the City. (2007 Code § 13-32)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-4C-1: Petit Larceny
6-4C-2: Receiving Stolen Property
6-4C-3: Damaging Or Destroying Property
6-4C-4: Unlawful Entry Or Intrusion
6-4C-5: Unlawful Posting Of Advertising Matter
6-4C-6: Damaging Utility Poles
6-4C-7: Unlawful Throwing Or Shooting Of Objects
6-4C-8: Littering
6-4C-9: Shoplifting
6-4C-1: PETIT LARCENY:
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), accompanied by fraud or stealth, or with
intent to deprive another thereof, when the property is not taken from the
person of another. (2007 Code § 13-50; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful and any person who commits petty larceny
shall be guilty of an offense. (2007 Code § 13-50)
6-4C-2: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, transport or bring into
the City any property which said person knows has been stolen. (2007 Code § 13-
51)
6-4C-3: DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles, to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use, or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(2007 Code § 13-52)
6-4C-4: UNLAWFUL ENTRY OR INTRUSION:
   A.   Unlawful Entry: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, without
proper permission, upon the property of another or into an area or structure on
such property (whether such property, area or structure is public or private),
particularly when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or otherwise, or
when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is
in the line of duty, with the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person
in charge, or otherwise by authority of State law or ordinance.
   B.   Unlawful Intrusion Or Squatting: Every person who intrudes or squats
upon any lot or piece of land within the City without authority from the owner
thereof, or who erects or occupies thereon any hut or other structure without
such authority, and every person who places, erects or occupies within the
bounds of any street, alley or avenue of the City, any structure whatever,
shall be guilty of an offense.
   C.   Vacating Business Operations: It shall be unlawful to remain on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation,
after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer or by
the owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises or by the agent,
servant or employee of the owner. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to persons, including employees, whose presence on the premises is
authorized by the owner or person in lawful possession of such premises, nor
shall the provisions of this subsection apply unless the hours of the business
operation are posted upon such premises. It shall also be unlawful to return to
said private property before the posted time of opening for business operation
on the next business day, after having been directed to vacate such premises
under the terms of this subsection. (2007 Code § 13-53)
6-4C-5: UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write or print
any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device or inscription
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, automobile, other
vehicle or other property of another, without the consent of the owner or
person in charge thereof. (2007 Code § 13-54)
6-4C-6: DAMAGING UTILITY POLES:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write, print,
paint up, or otherwise make any signs or marks, by indentation or otherwise, or
by posting signs or posters, upon any telephone, television, electric or power
pole, either wood, concrete, steel or of any other substance, within the
corporate limits of the City. The word "pole" shall be construed to mean any
pole supporting telephone, television, electric or power wires or braces, and
any device used to support or brace such a pole.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who
may make such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon. (2007 Code § 13-
55)
6-4C-7: UNLAWFUL THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where said person is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another, whether public or private, except
in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property. (2007 Code § 13-56)
6-4C-8: LITTERING:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "litter" is defined to be
any garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobile, paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, wood, grass, bedding or crockery and similar materials
commonly referred to as rubbish or trash.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Open Or Vacant Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter in
or upon any open or vacant property within the City irrespective of the
ownership of such property.
      2.   Receptacles Or Landfill: No person shall throw or deposit litter in
or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place within the City
except in public receptacles, authorized private receptacles or in the
Municipal Sanitary Landfill.
      3.   Litter From Building Or Lot: No person shall sweep into, or deposit
in, any gutter, street or other public place within the City, the accumulation
of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway; persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter.
      4.   Vehicle Or Truck: No person shall drive or move any truck or other
vehicle within the City unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any
vehicle or truck within the City, the wheels or tires of which carry onto, or
deposit in, any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind, in excessive or damaging
amounts.
      5.   Aircraft: No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit
within the City any litter, handbill or any other object.
      6.   Handbills:
         a.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the City.
         b.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
         c.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises, which are temporarily or continuously
vacant.
         d.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or
agents", "no advertisements", or similar notice, indicating that the occupants
do not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
         e.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant or persons present upon
such private premises; in cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be distributed to prevent them from blowing on sidewalks
or other public places. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
the distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk or public place, or on other private
property. (2007 Code § 13-57)
6-4C-9: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any
merchandise from a commercial business without paying for said merchandise and
without the consent of the owners of said business.
   B.   Arrest Violator Without Warrant: Any police officer or licensed
security guard may arrest, without warrant, any person if there is probable
cause for believing said person has committed larceny of merchandise held for
sale in retail or wholesale establishments, when such arrest is made in a
reasonable manner.
   C.   Merchant Detaining Suspected Shoplifter: Any merchant, an agent or
employee, who has reasonable grounds or probable cause to believe that a person
has committed or is committing a wrongful taking of merchandise or money from a
mercantile establishment, may detain such person in a reasonable manner for a
reasonable length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
      1.   Conducting an investigation, including reasonable interrogation of
the detained person, as to whether there has been a wrongful taking of such
merchandise or money;
      2.   Informing the police or other law enforcement officials of the facts
relevant to such detention;
      3.   Performing a reasonable search of the detained person and said
person's belongings when it appears that the merchandise or money may otherwise
be lost; and
      4.   Recovering the merchandise or money believed to have been taken
wrongfully; any such reasonable detention shall not constitute an unlawful
arrest or detention, nor shall it render the merchant, an agent or employee
criminally or civilly liable to the person so detained.
   D.   Concealing Merchandise: Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise
of any mercantile establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises
of such establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such merchandise
with the intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise within
the meaning of this section, and such concealment or the finding of such
unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of
such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds and probable
cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time, of such person by a merchant, an agent or employee, and any such
reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful, nor render such
merchant, his agent or employee criminally or civilly liable. (2007 Code § 13-
58)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
6-4D-1: Resisting Arrest
6-4D-2: Impersonating Municipal Officer Or Employee
6-4D-3: False Representation To Municipal Officials
6-4D-4: Escape Of Prisoners
6-4D-5: Assisting Prisoners To Escape
6-4D-6: Removal Of Barricades
6-4D-7: Flight From Police Officer
6-4D-8: Interference With Fire Alarm Systems
6-4D-9: False Fire Alarm
6-4D-10: Trapping Prohibited
6-4D-1: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose or
obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Municipal Judge or other
Municipal officers or employees in the discharge of their official duties; or,
by threats or otherwise, to intimidate, or attempt to intimidate, any such
officers or employees from the discharge of their official duties; or to
assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive or indecent
language toward or about, any such officers or employees, while such officers
or employees are in the discharge of their official duties. (2007 Code § 13-71)
6-4D-2: IMPERSONATING MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any Municipal police officer
or employee, or exercise, or attempt to exercise, any of the duties, functions
or powers of any Municipal officer or employee, without being duly authorized
to do so. (2007 Code § 13-72)
6-4D-3: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any Municipal officer, employee or agency in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency, or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the City. (2007
Code § 13-73)
6-4D-4: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the City Jail or other place of
confinement by the City, working upon the streets or other public places
pursuant to any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of
the City to escape, or attempt to escape, from any such jail, prison or
custody. (2007 Code § 13-74; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4D-5: ASSISTING PRISONERS TO ESCAPE:
   A.   Aiding In Escape; Giving Prisoners Liquor, Drugs, Weapons: It shall be
unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at liberty, rescue or
attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from any officer or employee
of the City having legal custody of such prisoner, or from the City Jail or
other place of confinement by the City, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any
weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist in
said escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages, narcotics or
other controlled dangerous substances.
   B.   Communication With Prisoners: It shall be unlawful for any person to
communicate with, or attempt to communicate with, any prisoner confined in the
jail, without authority to do so from the Chief of Police or the officer in
charge. (2007 Code § 13-75; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4D-6: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade or
obstruction placed by authority of the City to keep traffic off any pavement,
street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2007 Code § 13-76)
6-4D-7: FLIGHT FROM POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   Flight from an officer shall be unlawful and an offense.
   B.   A person commits the offense of flight from a Municipal police officer,
if:
      1.   Said person is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop said
vehicle as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer; or
      2.   Upon stopping said vehicle at the signal of a law enforcement
officer, abandons said vehicle and leaves, or attempts to leave, the immediate
area without the permission of the law enforcement officer; or
      3.   Said person is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle
after a law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop; or
      4.   After the vehicle has stopped, leaves the immediate area without the
permission of the law enforcement officer; or
      5.   Said person is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time. (2007 Code § 13-77)
6-4D-8: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS:
No person shall cut or sever, or cause to be cut or severed, or interfere with
in any manner, any wire of any fire alarm system in the City; or remove or
change the same; or cut, injure, change, alter or remove any pole, cross arm,
bracket or other support upon which said wires rest or in which said wires are
enclosed; or disconnect said wires or any of them from the gongs, alarm boxes
or instruments connected with said fire alarm system; or cause, in any manner,
the working of the same to become obstructed or interfered with without being
first duly authorized so to do by the Chief of the Fire Department; nor shall
any person deface or in any manner injure any of the fire alarm boxes or any
instruments or appliances connected with or belonging to said fire alarm
system; or tamper with said fire alarm or obstruct in any manner whatever, the
boxes, keys or glass upon any of said boxes; or make or cause to be made,
without authority from the Chief of the Fire Department, keys to any alarm box
or boxes; or to use, or cause to be used, any such key so made; nor shall any
person place or fasten over or upon any fire alarm box a handbill, notice or
sign of any kind, except the signs placed upon the same at the direction of the
Chief of the Fire Department and pertaining to the firebox; or cause to be
hitched any horse or animal to any pole on which is situated a fire alarm box.
(2007 Code § 13-78)
6-4D-9: FALSE FIRE ALARM:
No person shall turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner shall deceive or
attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers or employees to make a useless run. (2007 Code § 13-
79)
6-4D-10: TRAPPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used herein shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context otherwise requires:
    PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership and
includes agent, employee and principal.
   TRAP OR TRAPPING: The use of traps, nets, snares, deadfalls or other devices
used for the purpose of killing, capturing, netting or ensnaring any wildlife.
   WILDLIFE: All wild birds, mammals, fish, reptiles, amphibians and other wild
aquatic forms, and all other wild animals, regardless of classification,
whether resident, migratory or imported, protected or unprotected, dead or
alive, and shall extend to and include any and every part of any individual
species of wildlife.
   B.   Prohibited Area: No person may use, set, construct, possess or tend any
trap, snare, deadfall or other device for the purpose of catching any wildlife
within that portion of the City described as follows:
That portion of the City of Waurika bounded on the North by the meander line of
Beaver Creek; bounded on the West by High Street and in a direct line due North
to Beaver Creek where the same intersects; bounded on the South by U.S. Highway
70; and bounded on the East by Main Street of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma,
and Highway 5.
(2007 Code § 13-80)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew
6-5-2: Truancy
6-5-3: Contributing To Delinquency Of Minors
6-5-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
CITY:   The City of Waurika, Jefferson County, Oklahoma.
MINOR:  Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
        Any person having legal custody of a minor: 1) as a natural or adoptive parent;
PARENT: 2) as a legal guardian; 3) as a person who stands in loco parentis; or 4) as a
        person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
        Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or place to which the
        general public has access and a right to resort for business, entertainment or
PUBLIC  other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be limited to, any
PLACE:  store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café, theater, drugstore, pool
        room, shopping center or any other place devoted to amusement or entertainment
        of the general public; it shall also include the front or immediate area of the
        above.
        To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets, including
REMAIN: the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four (4) or more
        persons in which any minor involved would not be using the streets, for
        ordinary or serious purposes, such as mere passage or going home.
        A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as a matter
        of right for purposes of vehicular travel, or in the case of a sidewalk
STREET: thereof, for pedestrian travel; the term "street" includes the legal right-of-
        way, including but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the curb, the
        sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found
        within the legal right-of-way of a street.
TIME OF Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Central Standard time or
NIGHT:  Central Daylight Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public.
        Shall continue from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but not including
YEARS   the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it clear that
OF AGE: seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the
        phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age".
 
   B.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person seventeen (17)
or less years of age (under eighteen (18) years of age) to be or remain in or
upon the streets or public places within the city at night during the period
ending six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and beginning at:
      1.   Ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. for minors fifteen (15) years of age or
younger.
      2.   Eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. for minors over fifteen (15) years of
age on Sunday through Thursday.
      3.   Twelve o’clock (12:00) a.m. (Midnight) on Saturday morning and
Sunday morning for minors more than fifteen (15) years of age.
   C.   Exceptions: In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a public
street, during the normal hours for which subsection B of this section is
intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation, shall not, however, be
considered in violation:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor,
to take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a designated period
of time and purpose, within a specified area.
      3.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by processing a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned by a parent of such minor, with their home address and telephone
number, specifying when, where and in what manner said minor will be on the
streets at night, in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such
communication.
      4.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has, in said
minor's possession, a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor, evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets, at a
designated time, for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination.
      5.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor but communicating an
objection to the police officer.
      6.   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within thirty (30)
minutes of the termination of, a school activity, or an activity of a religious
or voluntary association; provided, that the minor has a written communication
in the minor's possession, countersigned by the parent, indicating the home
address and telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in
what manner said minor witt be on the streets at night.
      7.   When authorized by a regulation issued by the City Commission, in
other similar eases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled, but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities, or more minors than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis; normally sueh regulation by the City
Commission permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in
advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other
agencies, such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the
use of the streets permitted, the period of time involved (not to extend more
than thirty (30) minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity), and
the reason for finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and
consistent with the public interest and the purposes of this section.
      8.   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment,
and his hours of employment, or carries a valid proof of employment, which may
include the latest payroll receipt, not over thirty (30) days old.
      9.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle, this
contemplates normal travel and clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the City, particularly on normal routes.
   D.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawfrrl for a parent having
Iegal custody of a minor to knowingly permit, or by inefficient control, to
allow such minor to be, or remain upon any public street under circumstances
not constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this
section. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
parent's Iegal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, a fortiori, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such minor.
   E.   Apprehension Of Minor: A police officer of the City, upon finding or
having attention called to any minor on the streets in prima facie violation of
this section, normally shall take the minor to the Waurika Police Station, or
other place designated by the Chief of Police, where a parent shall immediately
be notified to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be intemogated. This
is intended to permit ascertainment, under Constitutional safeguard, of
relevant facts and to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty
for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement and recording,
thus making available to experienced supervisory personnel, the best of
facilities and access to information and records. In the absence of convincing
evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer on the street shall, in
the first instance, use his best judgment in determining age.
   F.   Refining Police Procedures: Police procedures shall constantly be
refined in the light of experience, and may provide, inter alia, that the
police officer may deliver to a parent thereof a minor under appropriate
circumstances; for example, a minor of tender age, near home, whose identity
may readily be ascertained or are known.
   G.   Police Report: In any event, such police officer shall, within twenty-
four (24) hours, file a written report with the Chief of Police, or shall
participate to the extent of the information for which he is responsible; said
report shall be treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with
State Statutes.
   H.   Minor Released To Custody Of Parent Or Other Person: When a parent,
immediately called, has come to take charge of the minor, and the appropriate
information has been recorded, the minor shall be released to the custody of
such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or fails to take charge of the
minor, then the minor shall be released to the juvenile authorities, except to
the extent that in accordance with police regulations, approved in advance by
juvenile authorities, the minor may temporarily be entrusted to a relative,
neighbor or other person who \Mill, on behalf of a parent, assume the
responsibility of caring for the minor pending the availability or arrival of a
parent. (2007 Code § 13-22; amd. Ord. 01102022-01, 1-10-2022)
6-5-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   School Authority To Report Nonattendance To Police: Once the Chief of
Police has been notified by the attendance officer of the school district or
the principal of a school in the district, that a child who is not exempt from
attendance at school pursuant to 70 Oklahoma Statutes section 10-105B, has been
notified by said attendance officer that:
      1.   A child has been absent from class for three (3) or more days or
parts of days within two (2) weeks and said absences were unexcused;
      2.   That the parent, guardian or responsible person of the absent child
has been notified by written certified correspondence of the child's absence;
      3.   That within five (5) days of the receipt of said correspondence the
parent, guardian or responsible person has not contacted the attendance officer
and compelled the child's immediate return to school;
The Chief of Police shall draw a standard form of citation charging the parent,
guardian or responsible person for violating a duty to compel attendance by the
minor child at school.
   B.   Citation Charging Responsible Person: The attendance officer shall be
required to sign the citation as complaining witness whereon the citation will
be endorsed by the City Attorney, and the parent, guardian or responsible
person will be charged and prosecuted pursuant to 70 Oklahoma Statutes section
10-105D. (Ord. 040207-2, 4-2-2007)
6-5-3: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DELINQUENT CHILD: Shall include a minor who shall have been, or is,
violating any Penal Statute of this State or who commits any offense listed in
this Code.
   MINOR OR CHILD: Shall include male or female persons who shall not have
arrived at the age of eighteen (18) years at the time of the commission of the
offense.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and
wilfully cause, aid, abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain or to become a
delinquent child, as defined herein. (2007 Code § 13-20)
ARTICLE A. PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Definitions
6-5A-2: Furnishing Or Selling Tobacco Or Vapor Products And Materials To
Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
6-5A-3: Purchase Or Receipt Of Tobacco Or Vapor Products By Persons Under
Twenty-One Years Of Age
6-5A-4: Distribution Of Samples
6-5A-5: Sale In Original, Sealed Package Only
6-5A-6: Public Access To Tobacco Or Vapor Products
6-5A-7: Vending Machine Sales
6-5A-8: Sign Posted
6-5A-9: Notice To Retail Employees
6-5A-10: Refusal Of Minor To Disclose Information
6-5A-11: Enforcement
6-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON:                  Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership,
                         corporation, trust or association, however formed.
                         A driver's license, license for identification only or
                         other generally accepted means of identification that
PROOF OF AGE:            describes the individual as twenty-one (21) years of
                         age or older and contains a photograph or other
                         likeness of the individual and appears on its face to
                         be valid.
                         A tobacco product or vapor product distributed to
SAMPLE:                  members of the public at no cost for the purpose of
                         promoting the product.
SAMPLING:                The distribution of samples to members of the public
                         in a public place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT:         Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
                         human consumption.
                         The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
TRANSACTION SCAN:        transaction scan device, the validity of a driver's
                         license or other government issued photo
                         identification.
                         Any commercial device or combination of devices used
                         at a point of sale or entry that is capable of
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: deciphering in an electronically readable format the
                         information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code
                         of a driver's license or other government issued photo
                         identification.
                         Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
                         nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element,
                         battery, electronic circuit, or other mechanism,
                         regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
                         produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor
                         products" shall include any vapor cartridge or other
                         container with or without nicotine or other form that
                         is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette,
VAPOR PRODUCT:           electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
                         pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor
                         cartridge or other container of a solution, that may
                         or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be
                         used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic
                         cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device.
                         "Vapor products" do not include any products regulated
                         by the United States Food and Drug Administration
                         under chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
                         (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
 
6-5A-2: FURNISHING OR SELLING TOBACCO OR VAPOR PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   Tobacco Products: It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish
in any manner any tobacco product or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product or vapor product on behalf of any such person; provided, however, that
it shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle such products when required in the performance of the employee's duty.
      2.   Materials: It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in
any manner to another person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age any
material or device used in the smoking, chewing, or other method of consumption
of tobacco products or vapor products, including cigarette papers, pipes,
holders of smoking materials of all types, and other items designed primarily
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or vapor products.
   B.   Proof of Age:
      1.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products or
vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if any ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be r:nder twenty-one (21) years of age.
      2.   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of age, the
failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation
of this subsection.
   C.   Liability:
      1.   Employee: If the sale is made by a, employee of the owner of a store
at which tobacco products or vapor products are sold at retail, the employee
shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
      2.   Business Owner: Each violation by uny employee of an owner of a
store licensed to sell tobacco products or vapor products shall be deemed a
violation against the owner for purposes of a license suspension. An owner of a
store licensed to sell tobacco products or vapor products shall not be deemed
in violation of the provisions of the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act
1 for any acts constifuting a violation by any person, when the violation
occurs prior to actual employment of the person by the store owner or the
violation occurs at a location other than the owner's retail store.
      3.   Multiple Locations: For the purpose of determining the liability of
a person controlling franchises or business operation in multiple locations for
any violation of subsection A or B of this section, each individual franchise
or business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
   D.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A or B of this section, the
Municipal Court may assess such person a fine of:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs, for
the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs, for
the second offense within a two (2)-year period following the first offence;
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus court costs, for
a third offense within a two (2)-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products may
be suspended for a period not exceeding thfuty (30) days; or
      4.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two (2)-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or
vapor products may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
   E.   Defense:
      1.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of such violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product or
vapor product presented a driver's license or other government issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was twenty-one (21)
years of age or older; and
         b.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver's license or other government issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      2.   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver's license or other government issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   F.   Failure to Pay Fine:
      1.   Employee: Upon failure of the employee to pay the fine within ninety
(90) days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the Court Clerk shall
notify the State Department of Public Safety and request the department suspend
or not issue a driver's license to said employee r:ntil proof of payment has
been furnished to the State Department of Public Safety.
      2.   Business Owner: Upon failure of a store owner to pay the fine within
ninety (90) days of the assessment of the fine, the Court Clerk shall notify
the Oklahoma Tax Commission and the Tax Commission shall suspend the store's
license to sell tobacco products until proof of payment has been furnished to
the Oklahoma Tax Commission. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-3: PURCHASE OR RECEIPT OF TOBACCO OR VAPOR PRODUCTS BY PERSONS UNDER
TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for a person who is under twenty-one (21)
years of age to purchase, accept receipt of, or have in his possession a
tobacco product or vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her
own, for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product or vapor
product; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for such a person to
handle such tobacco product or vapor product when required in the performance
of such person's duties.
   B.   Violation; Penalties: When a person violates subsection A of this
section, the Municipal Court may assess such person a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs, for the first offense within a
one-year period and a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus
court costs, for a second or subsequent offense within a one-year period.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of the individual to pay such fins
within ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the Court Clerk shall
notify the State Department of Public Safety and request the department suspend
or not issue a driver's license to said employee until proof of payment has
been furnished to the State Department of Public Safety.
   D.   Notice To Parent Or Guardian Of Court Appearance: The parents or legal
guardian of a minor child who is cited/charged with a violation of this section
shall be notified in writing by the Court Clerk notifying the parents or legal
guardian of the violation and the date for court appearance. Such notice shall
be sent by first class mail to the parent's or legal guardian's last known
address. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-4: DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLES:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco products,
vapor products or product samples to any person under twenty-one (21) years of
age.
      2. Notwithstanding subsection A.1. of this section, no person shall
distribute tobacco product or product samples in or on any public street,
sidewalk or park that is within three hundred feet (300') of any playground,
school or other facility which is being used primarily by persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age.
   B.   Penalties: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the
Municipal Court may assess such person a fine of:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs, for
the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs, for
the second offense; and
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus court costs, for
a third or subsequent offense.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of the individual to pay the fine
within ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the Court Clerk shall
notify the State Department of Public Safety and request the department suspend
or not issue a driver's license to said individual until proof of payment has
been furnished to the State Department of Public Safety. (2019 Code; amd. Ord.
06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-5: SALE IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE ONLY:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes, except
in the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the
Municipal Court may assess such person a fine not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), plus court costs, for each offense. (2019 Code)
6-5A-6: PUBLIC ACCESS TO TOBACCO OR VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   Prohibition; Exemptions: It is unlawful for any person or retail store
to display or offer for sale tobacco products or vapor products in any manner
that allows public access to the tobacco product or vapor product without
assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or vapor product or
an employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall
not apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the
Municipal Court shall impose a fine of not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), plus court costs, for each offense. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-
02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-7: VENDING MACHINE SALES:
   A.   Location Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell
tobacco products or vapor products through a vending machine unless the vending
machine is located:
      1.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are
not open to the public;
      2.   In places that are open to the public, but to which persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age are not admitted.
   B.   Penalties: When a person violates any provision of subsection A or B of
this section, the Municipal Court shall impose a fine of:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs, for
the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs, for
the second offense; and
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus court costs, for
a third or subsequent offense.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of any person to pay an
administrative fine within ninety (90) days of the assessment of the fine, the
Court Clerk shall notify the State Department of Public Safety, and the
department shall suspend or not issue a driver's license to the person until
proof of payment has been furnished to the State Department of Public Safety.
(2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-8: SIGN POSTED:
   A.   Posting Required; Regulations: Every person who sells tobacco products
at retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business
a sign, as specified by the ABLE Commission, stating the following: "It's the
law. We do not sell tobacco products or vapor products to persons under 18
years of age". The sign shall also provide the toll free number operated by the
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission for the purpose of
reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the
Municipal Court may assess such person an administrative fine of not more than
fifty dollars ($50.00), plus court costs, for each day such offense occurs.
(2019 Code)
6-5A-9: NOTICE TO RETAIL EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Every person engaged in the business of selling tobacco products or
vapor products at retail shall notify each individual employed by that person
as a retail salesclerk that State law:
      1.   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products or vapor
products to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age and the purchase or
receipt of tobacco products or vapor products by any person under twenty-one
(21) years of age; and
      2.   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective purchaser
or recipient if any ordinary person would conclude based on appearance that the
prospective purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   This notice shall be provided before the individual commences work as a
retail salesclerk. The individual shall signify that he or she has received the
notice required by this section by signing a form stating as follows:
         I understand that State law prohibits the sale or distribution of
tobacco products or vapor products to persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age and out-of-package sales, and requires proof of age of purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one (21) years of
age. I promise, as a condition of my employment, to obey the law. I understand
that violations by me may be punishable by fines, suspension or nonissuance of
my driver license. In addition, I understand that violations by me may subject
the store owner to fines or license or permit suspension.
(2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
6-5A-10: REFUSAL OF MINOR TO DISCLOSE INFORMATION:
Any minor being in possession of cigarettes, cigarette papers, cigars, snuff,
chewing tobacco or any other form of tobacco product or vapor product and
being, by any police officer, constable, court officer, truant officer or
teacher in any school, asked where and from whom such cigarettes, cigarette
papers, snuff, chewing tobacco or any other form of tobacco product was
obtained, who shall refuse to furnish such information, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus court costs. (2019 Code)
6-5A-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The City police are authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions
of this article. The City police shall enforce these provisions in a manner
that can reasonably be expected to reduce the extent to which tobacco products
or vapor products are sold or distributed to persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   B.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the City
police to assist in compliance checks and enforcement; provided, however, that
such persons may be used to test compliance only if written parental consent
has been provided and the testing is conducted under the direct supervision of
the City police after giving written notice to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to the use of persons
under twenty-one (21) years of age to test compliance if the compliance test is
being conducted by or on behalf of a retailer of cigarettes, as defined in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 301, at any location the retailer of cigarettes is
authorized to sell cigarettes.
   C.   The City police shall furnish information requested by the ABLE
Commission in the form, manner and time as may be determined by the ABLE
Commission which will allow the ABLE Commission to comply with the laws of the
State of Oklahoma. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06142021-02, 6-14-2021)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Animal Control Officer
6-6-3: Running At Large Prohibited; Care Of Dogs
6-6-4: Disturbances; Public Nuisance Abatement
6-6-5: Keeping Animals
6-6-6: Responsibilities Of Owners
6-6-7: Rabies Control; Vaccination Requirements
6-6-8: Confining Female Dogs And Cats
6-6-9: Killing Certain Dogs Running Loose
6-6-10: Inspections To Enforce Chapter
6-6-11: Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
6-6-12: Adoption; Dog And Cat Sterilization
6-6-13: Prohibited Acts
6-6-14: Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates, or specifically provides for, a different meaning:
               All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or wild,
               including, but not limited to, bees, birds and fowl (including parakeets),
ANIMAL:        cattle, cats, chickens, dogs, ducks, geese, goats, fish, horses, livestock of
               all types, mammals (including elephants), rabbits, all reptiles, rodents, sheep,
               swine and turkeys.
ANIMAL BITE:   Any scratch or penetration of the skin by the teeth of an animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL
OFFICER OR     The person(s) responsible for enforcement of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma's,
RABIES CONTROL ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal control in said community.
OFFICER:
               Any premises formally designated by the City Commission for the purpose of
ANIMAL SHELTER impounding and caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter,
OR MUNICIPAL   irregardless of whether or not said premises are within or without the City's
POUND:         corporate boundaries, and irregardless of whether or not said premises are under
               actual City ownership or provided for under a contractual arrangement between
               the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, and private sector owner(s).
               Not securely confined by a fence or other means, on premises under the control
AT LARGE:      of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the owner, a member
               of the immediate family over twelve (12) years of age or an agent of the owner,
               by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or not.
               A.   Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on public
               or private property;
DANGEROUS DOG  B.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
OR OTHER       received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and the dog
ANIMAL MEANS   or other animal thereafter aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety
ANY DOG OR     of humans; or
ANIMAL THAT:   C.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
               received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and the dog
               or other animal thereafter kills or severely injures a domestic animal.
HARBORING:     Allowing any animal to habitually remain, or be fed, on premises under an
               owner's control.
               Any structure or place where more than three (3) dogs, over six (6) months of
KENNEL:        age, are kept, bred or trained, at any single time, or any facility designed or
               built to accommodate the temporary (less than 60 days) boarding of more than
               three (3) dogs over six (6) months of age.
LIVESTOCK:     All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds or small aquatic or
               amphibian animals.
NEUTER:        To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
NEW OWNER:     A person legally competent to enter into a contract acquiring a dog or cat from
               the releasing agency.
               Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal;
OWNER:         occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal customarily
               returns for a period of ten (10) days or more, shall be deemed to be harboring
               or keeping the animal, and thereby considered to be an "owner" of said animal.
PET:           Any animal kept primarily for pleasure, rather than for sale or other commercial
               purpose.
               A.   When unprovoked inflicts bites on a human either on public or private
               property; or
               B.   When unprovoked kills or severely injures a domestic animal either on
               public or private property;
               C.   Dogs or other animals shall not be declared potentially dangerous if the
POTENTIALLY    threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
DANGEROUS DOG  committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the
OR OTHER       owner of the dog or animal; or who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
ANIMAL MEANS   dog or animal; or who has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
ANY DOG OR     tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or animal; or who was committing or
OTHER ANIMAL   attempting to commit a crime.
THAT:          Potentially vicious animal means an animal, when unprovoked:
               A.   Acts as if it intends to bite a human, dog, cat, animal or livestock
               whether on public or private property;
               B.   Chases or approaches a human upon a public way in a threatening fashion as
               if to inflict injury or serious harm;
               C.   Demonstrates aggressive behavior, which requires a human to take defensive
               or evasive action to avoid physical contact with the animal.
               While on the owner's property, a potentially dangerous dog shall be securely
               confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure with at
PROPER         least one hundred and fifty (150) square feet of space for each dog kept therein
ENCLOSURE OF A which is over six (6) months of age, and which is suitable to prevent the entry
DANGEROUS DOG: of children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or
               structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and shall also provide
               protection from the elements for the dog.
RELEASING      Any pound (Municipal or otherwise), shelter or Humane Society organization,
AGENCY:        whether public or private.
               An animal shall be deemed to be under "restraint" if confined on the premises of
RESTRAINT:     its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person, or in the case
               of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged in the act of hunting.
SPAY:          To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat, in order to render said animal
               unable to reproduce.
STERILIZATION: To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
VICIOUS DOG OR Any dog or animal which has bitten or attempted to bite any person without undue
ANIMAL:        provocation, or which attacks, barks or growls at and acts as if it intended to
               attack or bite, any person or persons when not unduly provoked.
               Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally wild state and is
WILD ANIMAL:   not ordinarily tamed or domesticated; the term shall include such animals
               (hereinabove described) which may be owned by a circus or wild animal show or
               exhibition. (2007 Code § 3-1; amd. Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
 
6-6-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment Or Removal; Supervision: The City Manager may appoint a
person, persons or other entity to serve as the animal control officer(s) for
the City; said officer(s) shall be appointed for an indefinite term, may be
removed by said City Manager, and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Police Department.
   B.   Salary: The salary of the animal control officer(s) shall be
established by the City Manager, and may be either on a salary basis or a
contractual fee system related to enforcement activities. (2007 Code § 1-32)
6-6-3: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; CARE OF DOGS:
   A.   Owner Allowing Animal To Run At Large: It shall be unlawful and an
offense for the owner of any animal, domestic or wild (including dogs), to
permit the same to be, to run at large, or trespass upon the premises of
another person, or be unlawfully at large, at any time within the corporate
limits of the City.
   B.   Care Of Dogs: It shall be unlawful and an offense for the owner of any
dog to:
      1.   Permanently maintain a dog on a leash, rope, chain or similar
tether.
      2.   Have less than one hundred (100) square feet of space for each adult
dog; provided, that boarding kennels shall be exempt from this provision.
      3.   Fail to provide adequate drainage to prevent surface water from
standing in the area of the pen or enclosure where the dog is kept. (Ord.
101413-1, 10-14-2013)
6-6-4: DISTURBANCES; PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Nuisances Declared:
      1.   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of, or creates a nuisance for, any person or persons.
      2.   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   B.   Abatement: Abatement of such public nuisances shall be handled in
accordance with the provisions of title 5, chapter 1, "Nuisances", of this
Code. (2007 Code § 3-3)
6-6-5: KEEPING ANIMALS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to keep any animals within the corporate limits of the City except under
those conditions and provisions which may hereinafter specifically regulate the
keeping of certain types of animals.
   B.   Prohibited Animals Generally: If no specific provisions are listed in
this Code for keeping of a particular type of animal, said animal type shall
not be kept at all within the corporate limits of the City. (2007 Code § 3-4)
   C.   Swine Prohibited; Exceptions: No swine shall be kept within the
corporate limits of the City, with the following exceptions:
      1.   FFA and/or 4-H projects kept on public school property or in
appropriately zoned areas; or
      2.   Asian/Vietnamese pot bellied pigs or similar small swine, subject to
the following conditions:
         a.   A maximum of two (2) pot bellied pigs per residence;
         b.   No pot bellied pig kept at a residence shall weigh more than one
hundred (100) pounds;
         c.   Each pot bellied pig shall be a pet that is kept for personal
enjoyment and not kept or raised for human consumption or for commercial
breeding;
         d.   Each pot bellied pig shall be licensed and registered as provided
for the licensing and registration of dogs within the City (see section
6-6A-1 of this chapter);
         e.   The premises where a pot bellied pig is kept shall be cleaned
regularly and shall be maintained so that noxious odors are controlled;
         f.   Any person who keeps, maintains or harbors a pot bellied pig
shall keep it confined (with fence or similar enclosure or inside a house or
other building) or on a leash to prevent escape. (Ord. 100316-1, 10-6-2016)
   D.   Structure Requirements; Sanitation: Every structure wherein any
authorized animal is kept within the corporate limits of the City shall be
constructed of such material and in such a manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times, and it shall be maintained in said condition, devoid of
rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors, in order to avert the
creation of a nuisance to the public health. Every such structure, if located
within two hundred feet (200') of any tenement, apartment house, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious or hospital purposes, or residence (other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept), shall
provide a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure, of sufficient size to
hold all accumulations of manure. Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently
often and in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance,
and shall be kept covered at all times, except when open during the deposit or
removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such
premises except in such receptacle.
   E.   Bee Keeping: The keeping of bees within the corporate limits of the
City shall be permitted only in those areas zoned for agricultural or large lot
(over 2 acres) residential uses, and in accordance with Zoning Ordinance
provisions. No license or permit, other than zoning clearance, shall be
required to keep or raise bees.
   F.   Livestock: Consistent with provisions of the City's existing or future
Zoning Ordinances, the keeping or raising of horses, sheep, and cattle shall
only be permitted within the City on premises zoned A-General Agricultural
District or are kept on public school property for the purpose of FFA and/or 4H
projects, and as long as the premises are maintained in accordance with the
provisions of subsection D of this section and State and County Health
Department requirements and standards. Additional restrictions on the raising
and/or keeping of animals may is imposed by the Zoning Ordinances without
conflicting with this subsection.
   G.   Small Birds Or Fowl: The raising of parakeets and/or other small birds
or similar fowl shall be permitted within the City without license or permit
requirements, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   All activities associated with the raising of parakeets shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view;
      2.   Premises utilized for the raising of parakeets shall be maintained
in accordance with subsection D of this section; and
      3.   All requirements of any adopted Zoning Ordinance shall be met.
   H.   Rodents: The raising or keeping of rodents, for any purpose, shall be
permitted, in accordance with the provisions of subsection D of this section
and any applicable license and permit requirements outlined in article A of
this chapter, as well as any applicable provisions of the adopted Zoning
Ordinance.
   I.   Rabbits: The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted, in
accordance with the provisions of subsection D of this section, as well as any
applicable provisions of any adopted Zoning Ordinance.
   J.   Wild Animals: The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be
prohibited within the City, except for those wild animals which may be under
the care of traveling shows or circuses, and for which the license requirements
of article A of this chapter are met and a permit obtained.
   K.   Snakes: No snakes which are poisonous in their natural state may be
kept within the corporate limits of the City, except under the conditions and
provisions of any license required for such snakes in article A of this
chapter; it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or
raise such snakes within the City, without having met permit requirements and
obtained a permit.
   L.   Farming Or Ranching Operations: Consistent with provisions of the
City's current or future Zoning Ordinance, persons living within the City's
corporate limits who are conducting farming and/or ranching operations on
tracts of land of five (5) acres or larger, may keep and maintain such animals
as may be required or useful in their operations; provided, that such sanitary
requirements as may be detailed in this section and chapter shall be complied
with at all times, regardless of the size of the tract of land involved. (2007
Code § 3-4; amd. Ord. 07112022-14, 7-11-2022; Ord. 08082022-18, 8-8-2022)
6-6-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS:
In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal shall
have the following additional responsibilities:
   A.   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   B.   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
   C.   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal for breeding
purposes within the corporate limits of the City except in private, enclosed
locations, entirely out of the public view, or to permit any such animals to
have sexual intercourse in any place except a private, enclosed place. (This
shall not be construed as permitting the conditional keeping of any animals
otherwise prohibited or regulated by this Code.) (2007 Code § 3-5)
6-6-7: RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vaccination Required:
      1.   Any warm blooded animal, capable of transmitting the virus rabies,
maintained or harbored at any time in the City shall be vaccinated against
rabies with an approved vaccine administered by a veterinarian who shall
maintain a record of vaccination for a period of at least three (3) years, and
who shall issue the owner of such animal a vaccination certificate (which shall
be retained by said owner until it expires and is renewed). The failure to
procure such certificate when so requested by the animal control officer shall
be prima facie evidence that such animal has not been vaccinated.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every person within the corporate limits of
the City owning or harboring any dog or cat which is six (6) months old or
older, to procure a rabies vaccination certificate from a licensed
veterinarian, or agent authorized by the City Commission, showing that the
vaccination has been made, date of vaccination, by whom and the date when such
vaccination shall expire.
   B.   Report Animal Biting Person; Quarantine: The identity and address of
the owner of any animal that bites a person shall be promptly furnished to the
animal control officer and County Health Department. The animal control officer
shall securely quarantine such animal until reasonable determination has been
made that the animal is not infected with rabies. At the discretion of the
animal control officer, such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at
a veterinary hospital of the owner's choice (at the owner's expense), or at the
Municipal pound or animal shelter. In case of animals whose ownership is
unknown, such quarantine shall be at the Municipal pound or animal shelter.
Said animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of rabies; such
owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
   C.   Procedure Upon Death Of Rabid Animal: When an animal under quarantine
has been diagnosed as being rabid, or is suspected of having rabies by a
licensed veterinarian, and dies while under such observation, the animal
control officer, veterinarian or other designated person, shall immediately
send the necessary part of such animal to the State Department of Health for
pathological examination and shall notify the proper Health Officer of any
reports of human contact.
   D.   Rabies Crisis; Community Wide Quarantine:
      1.   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the City Commission a community wide quarantine;
upon the invoking of such quarantine by the City Commission, no animal shall be
taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets, except for short
periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent adult). During such
quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the City without written
permission of the animal control officer.
      2.   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed; or, at the owner's
expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a licensed
veterinarian; or, held under six (6) month quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended.
   E.   Disposition Of Rabies Suspected Animal And Dead Animals: No person
shall remove from the City any animal suspected of having been exposed to
rabies, or any animal that has bitten a human, except as herein provided. The
carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered to the animal
control officer upon demand; the animal control officer shall direct
disposition of said animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the animal
control officer.
   F.   Compliance Required; Time Limit: It shall be unlawful to not comply
with all the Municipal vaccination requirements after fifteen (15) days of
residency. (2007 Code § 3-9)
6-6-8: CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS:
Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined, in a building or secure
enclosure, in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding. (2007 Code § 3-10)
6-6-9: KILLING CERTAIN DOGS RUNNING LOOSE:
The animal control officer, designated representatives or any police officer of
the City shall be required to kill any dog running loose within the corporate
limits of the City which is determined by the animal control officer or police
officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat to the public health and safety,
and which dog is found running at large without being restrained in a pen or on
a leash (as provided by this chapter), without keeping said dog in the
Municipal pound for any period of time. (2007 Code § 3-11)
6-6-10: INSPECTIONS TO ENFORCE CHAPTER:
   A.   The local or County health official, the animal control officer, or any
member of the City Commission, upon complaint of any person or on a self-
initiated basis, shall inspect any structure or place wherein an animal is
kept.
   B.   The local or County health official, or the animal control officer, may
issue any such reasonable order as may be deemed necessary to the owner of such
animal, to cause such animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a
manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   C.   The local or County health official, or the animal control officer, may
make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for violation of
any provision of this chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall
not abridge the right of others to make such complaints. (2007 Code § 3-12)
6-6-11: ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL:
   A.   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future
Zoning Ordinance, the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance shall prevail and
supersede the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   No animal shall be kept in violation of the Zoning Ordinance. (2007
Code § 3-13)
6-6-12: ADOPTION; DOG AND CAT STERILIZATION:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, as used in this section, are hereby
defined to have the meanings set out below:
    NEUTER: To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   NEW OWNER OR OWNER: A person legally competent to enter into a contract
acquiring a dog or cat from a releasing agency.
   RELEASING AGENCY: Any pound, shelter, or Humane Society organization,
whether public or private.
   SPAY: To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat in order to render said
animal unable to reproduce.
   STERILIZATION: To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
   B.   Sterilization Required; Deposit: No dog or cat may be released for
adoption from a releasing agency unless said animal has been surgically spayed
or neutered; or unless the adopting party signs an agreement to have the animal
sterilized, and deposits funds with the releasing agency to ensure that the
adopted animal will be spayed or neutered. The amount of the deposit required
shall be determined by each individual releasing agency. In no event shall the
required deposit be less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Refund Of Deposit Upon Proof Of Sterilization: The funds deposited with
the releasing agency shall be refunded to the adopting party upon the adopting
party's presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian
that the adopted animal has been spayed or neutered. However, no refunds shall
be made unless said animal was spayed or neutered within sixty (60) days of
adoption in the case of adult animals; or, in the case of infant animals,
within thirty (30) days of the date a female animal attained the age of six (6)
months, or a male animal attained the age of eight (8) months.
   D.   Additional Rules: Releasing agencies may adopt any additional rules to
implement the Dog and Cat Sterilization Act 1 , as amended, provided said rules
do not conflict with the provisions or purpose of the Dog and Cat Sterilization
Act to require the spaying and neutering of all dogs and cats adopted from
releasing agencies.
   E.   Extension Of Time Period For Sterilization: Upon presentation of a
written report from a licensed veterinarian stating that the life or health of
an adopted animal may be jeopardized by surgery, the releasing agency shall
grant a 30-day extension of the period within which the spay or neuter surgery
would otherwise be required. Further extensions may be granted upon additional
veterinary reports stating their necessity.
   F.   Death Of Adoptive Animal; Deposit Refund: If requested to do so,
releasing agencies shall refund deposited funds to the adopting party upon
reasonable proof being presented to the releasing agency by the adopting party
that the adopted animal died before the expiration of the period during which
the spaying or neutering was required to be completed.
   G.   Disposition Of Funds Received: Funds which have been forfeited by
adopting parties shall be placed in a separate account, which shall be an
interest bearing account whenever feasible and releasing agencies shall
allocate funds from said account to programs which directly promote, subsidize
or otherwise reduce the cost of spaying or neutering animals of the releasing
agency. The releasing agency shall maintain accurate records of accounts which
fund spay/neuter programs.
   H.   Establishing Adoption Standards: Subject to the provisions and purposes
of the Dog and Cat Sterilization Act and laws of the State of Oklahoma,
releasing agencies may establish adoption standards for pets in their care;
provided, however, that in the case of public facilities, said standards must
be reasonably related to the prevention of cruelty to animals, the responsible
management of dogs and cats in the interest of preserving public health and
welfare, and shall be applied in a fair and equal manner to all potential
adopters.
   I.   Exceptions To Sterilization Requirement; Effect Of Local Provisions:
The provisions of the Dog and Cat Sterilization Act shall not be construed to
require the sterilization of dogs and cats which are being held in releasing
agencies which might be claimed by their rightful owners; nor shall it be
construed to require the sterilization of dogs and cats held pursuant to the
provisions of 4 Oklahoma Statutes sections 391 through 402. Further, should the
provisions of this section meet or exceed the dog and cat sterilization
requirements set forth in the Dog and Cat Sterilization Act, this Code shall
take precedence over the State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act.
   J.   Noncompliance; Abatement Of Nuisance: Failure to comply with the
provisions of this section shall constitute either a public or private
nuisance. Any person may maintain a civil action to enjoin the continuance of
said private nuisance. The public nuisance may also be abated by the Board of
City Commissioners or officer authorized by law to do so. (2007 Code § 3-14;
amd. 2019 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 4 OS § 499 et seq.
6-6-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly, wilfully or
maliciously to:
         a.   Deposit any animal with the intention of abandoning the same;
         b.   Pour on or apply to an animal, any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain;
         c.   Improperly use any collar, leash, harness, etc., resulting in
pain or damage to an animal;
         d.   Treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         e.   Neglect an animal belonging to, or in the custody of, an owner,
in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         f.   Kill, or attempt to kill, any animal in an inhumane manner; or
         g.   Poison, or expose to poison, any dog or other animal, except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a
fight between animals, or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights
between animals. (2007 Code § 3-6)
   B.   Turning Confined Animals At Large: It shall be unlawful for any person
to open any enclosure in which an animal is confined (as required by
ordinance), so as to turn such animal at large, or to in any other manner turn
such animal at large. (2007 Code § 3-7)
   C.   Pasturing In Public Areas: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stake, confine or pasture any animal on any public property (Federal, State,
Municipal or other), or on any railroad right-of-way, without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (2007 Code § 3-8)
6-6-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any Health
Officer, the Chief of Police or the animal control officer, pursuant to this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in a sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code, and shall be subject to revocation of any license or
operating permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Every day's
violation of any provision of this chapter or of such order of the Health
Officer, animal control officer or Chief of Police, shall constitute a separate
offense. (2007 Code § 3-60)
ARTICLE A. LICENSES AND FEES
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Dog Licenses And Tags
6-6A-2: Poisonous Snake Licenses
6-6A-3: Wild Circus Animal Licenses
6-6A-4: Catteries, Kennels And Pet Shops; License Requirements
6-6A-1: DOG LICENSES AND TAGS:
   A.   No person, without first obtaining a written dog license from the
Office of the City Clerk, shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog
over six (6) months of age; provided, that the City shall first have
implemented such a license system. (2007 Code § 3-30)
   B.   No license shall be required for animals temporarily (7 days or less)
brought and kept within the City or for a guide dog, signal dog or service dog
that is actually being used by a blind, physically handicapped, deaf, or hard
of hearing person to aid that person in going from place to place. (2007 Code §
3-30; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of proof of current
vaccination for rabies, as required by this chapter.
   D.   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the license fee,
register the dog by giving the City Clerk the name and address of the owner,
the name, breed, color and sex of the dog and such other reasonable information
as the City Clerk may request.
   E.   The City Clerk shall deliver an appropriate tag for the dog, in
addition to the written receipt; the tag shall constitute the license.
   F.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the City Clerk to be
affixed to the collar or harness of the dog upon which the license fee has been
paid so that the tag can be seen by police officers, and the owner shall see
that the tag is so worn at all times.
   G.   Dog license tags shall not be transferable, from one dog to another,
and no refunds shall be made for any dog license fee because of the death of
the dog or the owner's departure from the community.
   H.   No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued
for a dog, as provided in this article. (2007 Code § 3-30)
   I.   An annual license fee of five dollars ($5.00) for every dog more than
six (6) months of age, is hereby levied upon the owner of any such dog kept or
harbored within the City.
   J.   All license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk, and shall be due not
later than January 1 of each year, or within one week after bringing such an
animal into the City after such date.
   K.   In the event of the loss of the tag before the end of the year for
which it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by presenting the
original receipt and the sum of one dollar ($1.00) to the City Clerk. (2007
Code § 3-30; amd. 2019 Code)
   L.   Licensed veterinarians or approved animal shelters may serve as agents
for the City to sell dog licenses, subject to a written agreement being
executed between said parties, delineating responsibilities, fees and charges
for said service; written proof of vaccination shall be provided from a
veterinarian. (2007 Code § 3-30)
6-6A-2: POISONOUS SNAKE LICENSES:
   A.   No person shall keep, buy or otherwise acquire from another, any
poisonous snake within the City without first having obtained from the City
Clerk a license to keep, purchase or otherwise acquire such poisonous snake.
   B.   Said license shall not be issued by the City Clerk until the applicant
therefor has made satisfactory showing to the City Clerk that there is ample
and sufficient equipment to safely keep and confine any poisonous snake to be
so kept or acquired in the community.
   C.   To cover the costs of issuing such license, the necessary
investigations preliminary to issuing and policing such license (by seeing that
any poisonous snakes so acquired by the licensee are safely kept and confined),
the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk, upon issuance of such license, a
seasonal (February, March and April) license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(2007 Code § 3-31)
6-6A-3: WILD CIRCUS ANIMAL LICENSES:
   A.   All wild animals owned by a circus or travelling animal show shall not
be permitted within the corporate limits of the City unless the owner or person
in charge of said circus or show, or a designated representative, has first
obtained a license for said animals from the City Clerk.
   B.   Said license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon submission of a
written, signed statement by the applicant that ample safeguards have been
provided to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   To cover issuance and enforcement costs, the applicant shall pay a fee
of twenty dollars ($20.00) to the City Clerk; the written receipt may
constitute the license.
   D.   Said license, so issued, shall be valid for a term of one month. (2007
Code § 3-32)
6-6A-4: CATTERIES, KENNELS AND PET SHOPS; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall own, maintain or operate a kennel
within the corporate limits of the City unless such kennel is licensed as
hereinafter provided. (See the definition of "kennel" in section
6-6-1 of this chapter.)
   B.   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk and shall
state the name and address of the owner or operator of said kennel, with the
street address and legal description of the property upon which the kennel is
located; said kennel must be in compliance with any applicable portions of any
present or future Zoning Ordinance adopted by the City.
   C.   The annual kennel license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) and
such license shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on the premises; each
animal kept in a kennel shall also be required to have all other applicable
licenses, tags, etc. (2007 Code § 3-33)
   D.   Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year beginning on January
1 of each year. Licenses may be issued starting thirty (30) days before January
1, and for thirty (30) days thereafter, or at such time as a new kennel seeks
to become operational. (2007 Code § 3-33; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   A kennel owner must show proof of rabies vaccination on all animals
over six (6) months of age when applying for a license.
   F.   Any person, firm or corporation maintaining a kennel, whether for
profit or not, shall maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be
subject to the provisions of this Code and any present or future Zoning
Ordinance. Nonconforming kennels shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   G.   No kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment house,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence, other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is
kept.
   H.   All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall:
      1.   Maintain records and retain such records for a 2-year period on all
dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show breed,
color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for which the
animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including name and
address of the new owner), and disease prevention and/or treatment and by whom;
      2.   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate physical
space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      3.   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   I.   Pet shops shall be subject to the same requirements for licensing as
kennels; in addition, any other requirements of this Code or of the adopted
Zoning Ordinance which may involve specific animals sold in a pet shop, shall
also be included in those regulations applicable to pet shops. (2007 Code § 3-
33)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL POUND
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Municipal Pound Authorized
6-6B-2: Impoundment Of Animals
6-6B-3: Fees For Impounding And Keeping
6-6B-4: Claiming Of Impounded Animals
6-6B-5: Sale Of Impounded Animals Of Value
6-6B-6: Breaking Pound
6-6B-1: MUNICIPAL POUND AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to establish a Municipal
Pound, under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Police or the animal control
officer, who shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and
treat them in a humane manner.
   B.   The Municipal Pound may be established on a shared or contractual basis
with other units of government or with a private individual or firm, and need
not be physically located within the City. (2007 Code § 3-40)
6-6B-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer (or any other
designated officer or employee of the City) to take into custody, and impound,
any animal running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The animal control officer shall also proceed to impound any dog that
is running at large within the corporate limits of the City, or that is not
confined with a secure and suitably sized leash (as provided in this chapter),
regardless of whether or not the owner may have a permit, the dog has been
vaccinated or the dog bears a tag.
   C.   The animal control officer shall immediately pick up and impound any
and all dogs which are kept, owned, possessed or harbored in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this Code.
   D.   Any person appearing at the Municipal Pound who shall satisfy the
keeper of the same of the fact of ownership or the right to the possession of
any dog therein impounded, shall have such dog returned, upon the payment of
the charges due, as authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Animals which are of no apparent value, taken into custody as provided
in this chapter, shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal control
officer; provided, that no animal taken into custody shall be destroyed until
such animal shall have been impounded at least seventy two (72) hours. During
such time, the owner may reclaim the animal or a proper home may be established
for such animal by any person desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay
applicable license fees and expenses incurred in the animal's detention.
   F.   Should any licensed institution request of the animal control officer
that animals be delivered to it for scientific or educational research, such
animals may be released to said institution; provided, that no animal taken
into custody shall be delivered to such institution until such animal shall
have been impounded for at least ten (10) days and remain unclaimed and
unredeemed by their owners or any other person(s) desiring such animal as a
pet.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct the
duties and activities of the Municipal official or employee responsible for
impounding animals. (2007 Code § 3-41)
6-6B-3: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING AND KEEPING:
   A.   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, shall be as determined by resolution of the City Commission.
   B.   All fees shall be paid to the City Clerk. Receipt for payment of fees
on an impounded animal shall be presented to the animal control officer or the
person in charge of the Municipal Pound, before the animal shall be released.
(2007 Code § 3-42)
6-6B-4: CLAIMING OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   An owner of an impounded animal, or his agent, may claim or redeem the
animal prior to its sale, destruction or delivery to an institution, by paying
the required fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements
prescribed by this chapter.
   B.   Any person claiming an unlicensed dog shall pay the required license
fee to the City Clerk, secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and a tag
to the animal control officer before the latter releases the dog. If a dog is
licensed, but not wearing the tag, the animal control officer shall require
adequate evidence of proper licensing before the animal's release. (2007 Code §
3-43)
6-6B-5: SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OF VALUE:
   A.   As soon as practicable after any animal of apparent value has been
impounded, the animal control officer or the Chief of Police shall thereupon
post a conspicuously visible notice thereof at the City Hall. Such notice shall
describe the animal, notify the owner to pay charges thereon and remove said
charges prior to the time fixed for the sale thereof, and also state that,
unless that animal is claimed, the animal will be sold at public auction at the
time and place named in the notice. The time of holding such sale of dogs and
fowl shall not be before the third day after posting of the notice and the time
of holding such sale for all other animals shall not be before the tenth day
after the posting of the notice.
   B.   Sales provided herein shall be for cash to the highest bidder; the
minimum bid shall cover fees for impounding and keeping the animal until the
date of sale, plus a five dollar ($5.00) fee to reimburse the City for the sale
expense, and shall be conducted by, or under the direction of, the Chief of
Police. If there is no bid, the Chief of Police shall provide for and conduct
another sale for the sale of such animal by posting notice thereof at the City
Hall, if there is reason to believe that a bid would be made at a later time;
otherwise, after an offering of an impounded animal at a sale without a bidder,
the animal shall be disposed of by the animal control officer as provided in
this chapter.
   C.   A purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall pay to the City Clerk all money received from
the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or on the next day upon
which the Office of said City Clerk is open for business.
   E.   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may claim the
excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the animal and a fee of five dollars ($5.00) to reimburse the City for
the expense it has incurred in making the sale. Such claim may be made at any
time within ninety (90) days after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved
by the City Commission, the City Clerk shall pay the claimant the excess; if a
claim is not so made, the excess shall belong to the City. (2007 Code § 3-44)
6-6B-6: BREAKING POUND:
No unauthorized person shall break open, or attempt to break open, the
Municipal Pound, or take or let out any animal therefrom, or take or attempt to
take, from any officer or employee of the City any animal taken into custody as
provided by this Code, or in any manner interfere with or hinder such officer
or employee in the discharge of duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals, as provided in this Code. (2007 Code § 3-45)
ARTICLE C. KENNEL AND ANIMAL SHELTER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-6C-1: Purpose
6-6C-2: Exceptions
6-6C-3: License Required
6-6C-4: Revocation And Suspension Of License
6-6C-5: License Fees
6-6C-6: Submission Of Plans And Specifications; Fee
6-6C-7: Contents Of Plans And Specifications
6-6C-8: Separation Of Certain Areas
6-6C-9: Physical Facilities Of Animal Shelters And Kennels
6-6C-10: Primary Enclosure Standards
6-6C-11: Sanitation
6-6C-12: Food And Water
6-6C-13: Inspection Of Facilities; Fee
6-6C-14: Classification And Separation Of Animals
6-6C-15: Disposal Of Animals By Animal Shelters
6-6C-16: Dogs And Cats To Be Vaccinated Against Rabies
6-6C-17: Diseased Animals
6-6C-18: Penalty
6-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of this article is to prevent and reduce the transmission of
diseases from animals, particularly, dogs and cats, to preserve the peace, and
to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City by
establishing rules and regulations over all kennel and private animal shelter
operations within the City. These requirements are in addition to the
requirements of
6-6A-4. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-2: EXCEPTIONS:
All Federal, State and municipal facilities shall be exempt from the provisions
of this article. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
animal shelter or a kennel without first procuring a license for such operation
from the City pursuant to
6-6A-4.
   B.   All veterinary hospitals and nonprofit benevolent organizations
dedicated to the care and protection of animals for humanitarian purposes shall
be exempt from the payment of the animal shelter or kennel license fees unless
the particular veterinary hospital or nonprofit benevolent organization
maintains stud animals or maintains three or more animals for breeding
purposes. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-4: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
In addition to any other penalties prescribed by ordinance, the City may revoke
or suspend an animal shelter or kennel license for any violation of these
regulations. An aggrieved individual may, within three days of receiving the
notice of revocation or suspension of license, file a written notice of intent
to appeal with the City Clerk. Upon receipt, this revocation or suspension of
license may be appealed to the Board of City Commissioners. (Ord. 07112022-15,
7-11-2022)
6-6C-5: LICENSE FEES:
A person required to procure a license under this division shall pay a license
fee to the City in an amount set forth by Resolution of the Board of City
Commissioners. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-6: SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS; FEE:
In addition to any other requirements of this Code, detailed plans and
specifications shall be submitted to the City Clerk to construct or remodel any
animal shelter or kennel. Written approval of plans and specifications must be
obtained from the City prior to any construction or remodeling. The person
submitting plans and specifications for review shall pay to the City the amount
for inspections as set forth by Resolution of the Board of City Commissioners.
(Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-7: CONTENTS OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Any plans and specifications for animal shelters or kennels shall be in
compliance with this article and must include descriptions of the proposed
ventilation system, plumbing equipment, and finishes of floors, walls, and
ceilings. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-8: SEPARATION OF CERTAIN AREAS:
Animal housing areas must be physically separated from areas in which food and/
or drink for human consumption is prepared, served or stored and from any
living and/or sleeping areas of animd shelter or kennel personnel. (Ord.
07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-9: PHYSICAL FACILITIES OF ANIMAL SHELTERS AND KENNELS:
   A.   Interior building surfaces. Interior building surfaces shall be
constructed and maintained so that they are impervious to moishrre and may be
readily cleaned.
   B.   Electric power. Reliable and adequate electric power shall be provided.
Electrical wiring must meet all requirements state law and municipal
ordinances.
   C.   Water. Adequate potable water shall be provided. Back flow preventers
shall be installed on any threaded faucets.
   D.   Heating. Indoor housing for domestic animals shall be sufficiently
heated when necessary to protect pet animals from cold, and to provide for
their health and comfort. The ambient temperature shall be made consistent with
the requirements of the particular species.
   E.   Ventilation. Indoor housing of animals shall be adequately ventilated
with fresh air to minimize odors and moisture and to provide for the health and
comfort of the animals at all times. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust
fans and vents or air conditioning, shall be provided when the ambient
temperature is 85 degrees Fahrenheit or higher.
   F.   Lighting. Adequate lighting must be provided a minimum of eight hours
per day. Such lighting shall provide a minimum of twenty-five (25)-foot candles
of illumination for thirty inches (30") above floor level and must be uniformly
distributed. Enclosures must be positioned to protect animals from excessive
illumination.
   G.   Drainage. A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate
excess water from animal housing facilities. If drains are used, they shall be
properly constructed and kept in good repair. If closed drainage systems are
used, waste water shall be disposed of by connection to a sanitary sewer or any
approved sewage disposal system. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-10: PRIMARY ENCLOSURE STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally. All enclosures shall be structurally sound and maintained in
good repair to protect the animals from injury, to contain them and to prevent
vermin from entering. They shall be constructed and maintained to enable the
animals to remain dry and clean and to provide convenient access to clean food
and water.
   B.   Flooring. The floors of the enclosures shall be constructed to prevent
injury to animals' feet and legs. Enclosures for dogs and cats may have wire
flooring provided, however, that:
      1.   The wire is of adequate gauge to prevent sagging under the weight of
the animals; and
      2.   The wire mesh is small enough to prevent their feet from falling
through the mesh.
   C.   Space requirements. Enclosures must be constructed to provide
sufficient space to allow each animal to exercise normal postural movements.
   D.   Additional requirement for cats. A receptacle containing sufficient
clean litter shall be provided to contain organic wastes.
   E.   Exercise areas. One run must be provided for every eighteen (18)
primary enclosures. The run must be of sufEcient size to allow an animal to
break into a run. At least two (2) exercise periods per day of twenty (20)
minutes each shall be provided. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-11: SANITATION:
   A.   Cleaning of animal enclosures. Animal waste shall be removed from
enclosures daily and/or as often as may be necessary to prevent contamination
of the animals and to reduce disease hazards and odors. Cages shall be cleaned
as often as may be necessary to maintain sanitary conditions by washing all
surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective sanitizer.
Animals must be removed from the enclosures during the cleaning process and
precautions taken to avoid cross contamination.
   B.   Equipment cleaning. Water and food containers and all other utensils
shall be cleaned and sanitized using generally acceptable methods such as the
use of heat or chemical sanitizing solution. These containers shall be cleaned
and sanitized as often as necessary to maintain sanitary conditions.
   C.   Waste disposal. Animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, debris
and other organic wastes shall be disposed of in a manner that ensures that
vermin infestation, odors, disease hazards and nuisanees are minimized.
   D.   Property, generally. The kennel property shall be kept clean, in good
repair, and free of trash.
   E.   Pest control. An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasites and avian and mammalian pests shall be maintained.
   F.   Storage of food and supplies. Supplies of food and bedding shall be
stored:
      1.   Off the floor; or
      2.   In waterproof closed containers and adequately protected against
infestation or contamination by vermin.
   G.   Dead animals. Animals that die at the facility shall be stored and
disposed of in a manner that will not cause a disease hazard or nuisance. (Ord.
07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-12: FOOD AND WATER:
   A.   All animals shall be fed at least once a day and shall be provided
potable water at all times except when under special veterinary care. The food
and water shall be free from contamination, palatable, and of sufficient
qualrty and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the animal. Refrigeration shall be provided for
perishable food.
   B.   Food and water containers shall be accessible to the animal and located
to minimize contamination by excreta. These containers shall be cleaned daily.
Self-feeders and self-waterers may be used if cleaned daily. (Ord. 07112022-15,
7-11-2022)
6-6C-13: INSPECTION OF FACILITIES; FEE:
   A.   All kennels or animal shelters must be inspected by the Municipal Code
Enforcement Officer and Building Inspector prior to the issuance of a license
under this Article. The City or its designated representatives may make
periodic inspections of all facilities licensed under this article and may make
re-inspections as necessary to achieve or maintain compliance with the
requirements of this article. An inspection or reinspection fee shall be paid
to the City. The amount of such fee shall be as set forth by Resolution of the
Board of City Commissioners.
   B.   Federal, State and municipal facilities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-14: CLASSIFICATION AND SEPARATION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Restrictions. Animals housed in the same enclosure shall be maintained
in compatible groups, with the following additional restrictions:
      1.   Females. Females in heat shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with males, except for breeding purposes.
      2.   Aggressive animals. Any aggressive animal shall be housed
individually in an enclosure. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
      3.   Puppies or kittens. Puppies or kittens shall not be housed in the
same primary enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams, except
when permanently maintained in breeding colonies.
      4.   Dogs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with cats,
nor shall dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other
species of animals.
      5.   Boarded animals shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure
with those from another household unless the owners have been informed of and
consented to that arrangement. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-15: DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS BY ANIMAL SHELTERS:
All euthanizations must be conducted in accordance with State law and in a
humane manner. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-16: DOGS AND CATS TO BE VACCINATED AGAINST RABIES:
All animals kept in animal shelters or kennels shall be vaccinated against
rabies in accordance with the provisions of
6-6A-4. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-17: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Animals under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease shall
be physically separated from other susceptible animals to minimize
dissemination of disease. Such quarantine area should have a separate
ventilation system.
   B.   Observation and separation. Animals shall be observed daily for signs
of disease. An animal suspected of having an infectious disease shall be
physically separated from other animals until the condition is determined to be
noninfectious.
   C.   Humane care. Sick or injured animals shall be provided with access to
veterinary care.
   D.   Disposal in a humane manner. Animals with untreatable diseases, or
injuries, or of an aggressive nature shall be disposed of in a humane manner.
   E.   Quarantine. In breeding kennels, the City may require laboratory
testing of a suitable number of animals or specimens to determine if such
animals are disease free. The costs of the laboratory tests shall be the
responsibility of the licensee. Quarantine will be lifted only through written
release by the Health Department when it is determined a health risk no longer
exists. (Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
6-6C-18: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this Article,
shall upon conviction, be guilty of an offense and fined in a sum not to exceed
the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code, and shall be subject to revocation of any license or
operating permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this Article. Every day's
violation of any provision of this Article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 07112022-15, 7-11-2022)
ARTICLE D. VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL
SECTION:
6-6D-1: Keeping Of Dangerous Or Vicious Animals Prohibited
6-6D-2: Procedure For Determination; Complaint
6-6D-3: Surrender Of Animal Required Upon Filing Of Complaint
6-6D-4: Complaints Against Animals Previously Deemed Potentially Dangerous Or
Vicious
6-6D-5: Investigation
6-6D-6: Determination By Officer That Animal Is Dangerous Or Vicious; Appeal
6-6D-7: When Officer Is Unable To Make Determination; Judicial Proceedings
6-6D-8: Keeping Potentially Dangerous Or Potentially Vicious Animals;
Confinement
6-6D-9: Leash And Muzzle
6-6D-10: Sight Proof Fencing
6-6D-11: Signs
6-6D-12: Insurance
6-6D-13: Identification Photographs
6-6D-14: Electronic Identification Tag
6-6D-15: Reporting
6-6D-16: Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited
6-6D-17: Breeding
6-6D-18: Offspring
6-6D-19: Sterilization
6-6D-20: Annual Registration
6-6D-21: Court Authority Regarding Dogs Attacking Persons
6-6D-22: Failure To Comply; Penalties And Other Remedies
6-6D-1: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor, shelter, keep, possess, or allow
to remain on any premises under his control within the city a dangerous or
vicious animal. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-2: PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINATION; COMPLAINT:
Any person who has actual knowledge of a dog or other animal may file a
complaint\ in municipal court alleging that the dog or other animal is
potentially vicious, potentially dangerous, vicious, or dangerous. (Ord.
12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-3: SURRENDER OF ANIMAL REQUIRED UPON FILING OF COMPLAINT:
When a complaint is filed in the municipal court of the city alleging violation
of this article, the person against whom the complaint is filed, or any other
person having control or custody of the animal alleged to be vicious or
dangerous, shall deliver the animal to the animal control officer or the duly
appointed representative for confinement in the city animal shelter, pending
the judgment of the municipal court. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-4: COMPLAINTS AGAINST ANIMALS PREVIOUSLY DEEMED POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR
VICIOUS:
After an animal has been determined in writing to be potentially vicious or
potentially dangerous, further complaints against that animal will be treated
as complaints that the animal is dangerous or vicious. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-
2023)
6-6D-5: INVESTIGATION:
An animal control officer or a commissioned police officer shall investigate
complaints of dangerous, vicious, potentially dangerous, or potentially vicious
animals and make a determination of the facts. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-6: DETERMINATION BY OFFICER THAT ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS; APPEAL:
   A.   Finding; notice to animal owner. If the officer observes an animal that
is the subject of the complaint and is witness to dangerous, vicious,
potentially dangerous or potentially vicious behavior, he shall notify the
owner of the animal in writing that he has determined the dog to be dangerous,
vicious, or potentially dangerous or vicious. The notification shall direct
that the owner register the potentially dangerous or vicious animal with the
animal control officer and comply with all the provisions of this article
within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice or, if appropriate, that the
owner remove the dangerous or vicious animal immediately and permanently from
the city limits within seven days of the date of the notice.
   B.   Notice to property owner. The officer shall also provide a copy of the
written notice to the owner of the property, if other than the owner of the
animal.
   C.   Appeal. Any person whose animal is determined to be dangerous, vicious,
potentially dangerous or potentially vicious by the animal control officer or
commissioned police officer may appeal the determination by filing a written
appeal to the municipal judge within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
officer's notice.
   D.   Hearing on appeal; notice to animal owner. The municipal judge shall
hold a hearing within fifteen (15) days of the date of the appeal to determine
if the animal is vicious, dangerous, potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious and whether the animals should be destroyed. The court's decision is
final. The animal control officer shall notify the appellant in writing of the
decision.
   E.   Time for owner to comply following ruling. Upon a ruling that the
animal is vicious or dangerous, the court shall order that the animal be
removed from the city limits within seven days. Upon a ruling that the animal
is potentially dangerous or potentially vicious, the court shall order the
owner or possessor to comply with the provisions of this article within thirty
(30) days. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-7: WHEN OFFICER IS UNABLE TO MAKE DETERMINATION; JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Request for hearing. If the animal control officer or a commissioned
police officer is unable to make a determination that the animal is vicious,
dangerous, potentially dangerous or potentially vicious, the complainant may
request a hearing before the municipal judge. The request shall be in writing.
   B.   Hearing. Within fifteen (15) days of the request for hearing, the
municipal judge shall hold a hearing and shall make a determination as to
whether the animal is vicious, dangerous, potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious and whether the animals should be destroyed. The court's decision is
final. The animal control officer shall notify the appellant in writing of the
decision.
   C.   Time for owner to comply following final order. Upon a ruling that the
animal is vicious, dangerous, potentially dangerous, or potentially vicious,
the judge shall order that the owner comply with the requirements of this
article within thirty (30) days of the order. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-8: KEEPING POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMALS;
CONFINEMENT:
   A.   All potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animals shall be
securely confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel with at least
one hundred and fifty (150) square feet of space for each animal kept therein,
except when leashed and muzzled as provided in this division. The pen, kennel,
or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides.
   B.   All structures used to confine potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must be locked with a key or combination lock when such animals
are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides of the pen and must be embedded in the ground no less
than two feet (2').
   C.   All structures erected to house potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must comply with all zoning and building regulations of the
city. All such structures must be adequately lighted, ventilated, and kept in a
clean and sanitary condition. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-9: LEASH AND MUZZLE:
No person shall permit a potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animal to
go outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet in length and under the physical restraint of a
responsible person over sixteen (16) years of age. Such animals may not be
leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In addition,
all animals on a leash outside the animal's kennel must be muzzled by a
muzzling device sufficient to prevent such animal from biting persons or other
animals. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-10: SIGHT PROOF FENCING:
The yard where a potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animal is kept
shall be enclosed with a six foot (6') high sight proof fence. The fence shall
be maintained in a strong and sturdy condition at all times so that the
potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animal cannot escape from the
property, shall be free of holes, shall not contain any gap between the fence
and the ground large enough for a human limb or other animal to go through, and
shall be maintained to prevent children and other animals from entering the
property where the animal is kept. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-11: SIGNS:
All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, display in a
prominent place of their premises a sign easily readable by the public using
the words "beware of potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animal." In
addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such
animals. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-12: INSURANCE:
All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, provide proof to
the animal control officer of public liability insurance in a single incident
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or
death of any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons
which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal.
Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the policy will be
made unless ten days written notice is first given to the city. (Ord. 12042023-
07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-13: IDENTIFICATION PHOTOGRAPHS:
All owners, keepers or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, provide to the
animal control officer two (2) color photographs at least three inches (3") by
five inches (5") in size, of the potentially dangerous or potentially vicious
animals clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal. (Ord.
12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-14: ELECTRONIC IDENTIFICATION TAG:
All owners, keepers, or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, have an
electronic identification chip installed on the animal. The chip shall be
installed by a veterinarian licensed in the this state and shall be readable
with the use of an industry standard universal reader. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-
2023)
6-6D-15: REPORTING:
All owners, keepers, or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must within thirty (30) days of the incident report in writing
to the animal control officer the removal from the city or death of the animal,
the birth of offspring of the animal, and the new address of the animal should
the owner move from one location to another within the corporate city limits.
(Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-16: SALE OR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP PROHIBITED:
No person shall sell, barter or in any other way dispose of a potentially
dangerous or potentially vicious animal within the city to any person within
the city unless the recipient personally resides permanently in the same
household and on the same premises as the owner of such animal. Such animals
may be sold to persons who reside and who will keep the animal outside the city
limits. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-17: BREEDING:
It is unlawful to breed any potentially dangerous or potentially vicious
animals within the city. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-18: OFFSPRING:
All offspring born of potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animals
registered within the city must be removed from the city within six weeks of
the birth of such animal. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-19: STERILIZATION:
All owners, keepers, or harborers of potentially dangerous or potentially
vicious animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, have them
sterilized. Sterilization shall be performed by a veterinarian licensed in this
state. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-20: ANNUAL REGISTRATION:
All potentially dangerous or potentially vicious animals shall be registered by
the owner with the animal control officer of the city within thirty (30) days
of notification by the animal control officer that the animal has been declared
potentially dangerous or potentially vicious. The animal control officer shall
not register such animal if the requirements of this division are not complied
with at the time of application. The annual registration fee shall be
established by the city commissioners. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-21: COURT AUTHORITY REGARDING DOGS ATTACKING PERSONS:
   A.   Authority To Order Hearing: If any dog within the city shall bite,
scratch, chase, or otherwise attack any person; and, if the person so attacked
was not at the time trespassing upon the property of the owner of such dog;
and, if it cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the person so
attacked was provoking or teasing such dog, the municipal court shall have the
authority to order and hold a hearing.
   B.   Court Order: If the court determines that such dog is vicious or
dangerous to persons or other animals, the court may order that such dog be
kept muzzled, or that such dog be kept within a sufficient enclosure, or that
such dog be delivered to the animal control officer and by him destroyed. (Ord.
12042023-07, 12-4-2023)
6-6D-22: FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTIES AND OTHER REMEDIES:
It is unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of a potentially dangerous or
potentially vicious animal in the city to fail to comply with the requirements
and conditions set forth in this division. Any potentially dangerous or
potentially vicious animal found to be in the subject of a violation of this
division shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. All expenses
associated with the impounding, including shelter, food, handling and
veterinary care, shall be borne by the owner of such animal during the period
of impoundment. Failure to comply with all the requirements and conditions set
forth in this division within fifteen (15) days of impoundment will result in
the destruction of this animal. The owner, upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable as provided in this Title. (Ord. 12042023-07, 12-4-
2023)
 
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Policy
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Unlawful Practices
6-7-4: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
6-7-5: Financing Of Housing
6-7-6: Brokerage Services
6-7-7: Exemption
6-7-8: Administration
6-7-9: Education And Conciliation
6-7-10: Enforcement
6-7-11: Investigations; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
6-7-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
6-7-13: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
6-7-14: Separability Of Provisions
6-7-15: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
6-7-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the City to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the City. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES: An act that is unlawful under sections
6-7-4,
6-7-5, and
6-7-6 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupation as a residence by one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise to grant for
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord.
03062017-4, 3-6-2017; amd. 2019 Code)
6-7-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
6-7-7 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in section
6-7-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman or
of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any such facilities or
services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or person; and
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
6-7-4C of this chapter. However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein;
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-4: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
6-7-3 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection
6-7-3B and section
6-7-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
political activities.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or political activities.
   C.   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or political activities an intention to
make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability or familial status, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or political activities that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so available.
   E.   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling,
for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or political activities. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-5: FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance because of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability,
familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or political activities
of such person or of any person associated with him in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in subsection
6-7-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-6: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account
of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or political activities. (Ord. 03062017-4,
3-6-2017)
6-7-7: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion
or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion
is restricted on account of race, sex, color, national origin, disability,
familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or political activities.
Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club, not, in fact, open
to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the City.
   B.   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions, duties
and powers to employees of the City or to boards of such employees, including
functions, duties and powers, with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business or matter under this chapter. The Chief Executive Officer
shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his
hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the City,
to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with law.
   C.   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner to
affirmatively further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the
Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it and shall endeavor,
with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of
reference under subsection C of this section, the Chief Executive Officer shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he intends to resolve it. If the Chief Executive Officer decides to try
to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion, nothing said or done in
the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in
a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the
persons concerned. Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make
public any information in violation of this provision shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned not more
than ten (10) days.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and, with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If, within thirty (30) days after a complaint if filed with the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this
filing.
   D.   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may,
within thirty (30) days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate
court against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   In any proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action by an individual shall come to trial, the Chief
Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statement of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Chief
Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel his access to or the production
of such materials or the appearance of such persons and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief Executive
Officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself.
Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the
name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were issued at
his request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoenas of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fee payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him. Within
five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such person may
petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the subpoena. The
Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena
requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it
requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under
investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the
evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous or for other
good reason.
   D.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief Executive
Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   E.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
Chief Executive Officer shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or imprisoned not more than ten (10) days, or both. Any person who,
with intent to mislead the Chief Executive Officer, shall make or cause to be
made any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record or
other document submitted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his
subpoena or other order or shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents or shall wilfully mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify
any documentary evidence shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or imprisoned not more than ten (10) days, or both.
   F.   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted herein by sections
6-7-3,
6-7-4,
6-7-5, and
6-7-6 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in State or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred;
provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection
6-7-10D of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are
likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing
practice complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however,
that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any
court order issued under the authority of this chapter and involving a bona
fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant, without actual notice of the existence
of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this
chapter, shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff,
in the opinion of the court, is not financially able to assume said attorney
fees. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-13: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his having exercised or
enjoyed or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in the
exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by section
6-7-3,
6-7-4,
6-7-5, or
6-7-11 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-14: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
6-7-15: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force,
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
disability, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or political
activities, and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or class of persons from:
      1.   Participating without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or political activities in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in subsection A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, disability, familial status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, or political activities in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in subsection A of this section or from
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate shall be fined not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned not more than ten (10) days, or both; and if
bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or imprisoned not more than ten (10) days, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 03062017-4, 3-6-2017)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-2: City Commission Authority; Compliance Required
7-1-3: Obedience To Title
7-1-4: Public Officials And Employees
7-1-5: Duties Of Police Officers And Firefighters
7-1-6: Necessity Of Signs
7-1-7: Vehicle Equipment And Licensing
7-1-8: Compulsory Liability Insurance
7-1-9: Inspection Of Vehicles
7-1-10: Accident Reports; Leaving An Accident Scene
7-1-11: Dangerous Objects In Streets
7-1-12: Construction Zones
7-1-13: Persons Working On Streets
7-1-14: Pedestrians
7-1-15: Seat Belt Usage; Child Passenger Restraint System
7-1-16: Electronic Text Messaging
7-1-17: Citation Tags; Failure To Comply
7-1-18: Penalty
7-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Traffic Code Adopted: The Oklahoma Highway Traffic Safety Code, title
47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, and every ten (10) years'
recodification thereof is hereby adopted and incorporated in this title as if
set out at length herein, for the purpose of establishing locally appropriate
rules and regulations for the control of traffic within the City 1 .
   B.   Definitions: The definitions of words used in this title shall be the
same as those definitions in 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-101 through 1-186,
as amended. (2007 Code § 18-1)
   C.   Copies On File: The Office of the City Clerk shall maintain at least
one copy of the current Oklahoma Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted by this
section, on file in the Office of said City Clerk. (2007 Code § 18-1; amd. 2019
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 1-101 - 965.
7-1-2: CITY COMMISSION AUTHORITY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Commission Authority: The City Commission is hereby empowered to adopt
and provide for the enforcement of regulations necessary to make the provisions
of this title and any other traffic or related ordinances of the City
effective, and to adopt and provide for the enforcement of temporary
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   B.   Compliance Required: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer,
firefighter or any other authorized City employee. (2007 Code § 18-10)
7-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO TITLE:
   A.   Allowing Another To Drive Or Park One's Vehicle Illegally: It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or knowingly to
permit any vehicle registered in his, her or its name, to be driven or be
parked in violation of any provisions of this title.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: The parent or guardian of any child or ward
shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any
of the provisions of this title. (2007 Code § 18-150)
7-1-4: PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Drivers Of Governmental Vehicles: The provisions of this title shall
apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by, or used in the service of, the
United States government, and any State, County, Municipal or other
governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles; it shall be unlawful
for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as
otherwise permitted in this title or by State law.
   B.   Exceptions: This title shall not apply to the military forces of the
United States and organizations of the National Guard when performing military
duty. (2007 Code § 18-151)
7-1-5: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and any police officers to
enforce the traffic regulations of the City, and all of the State Vehicle Laws
applicable to traffic in the City, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, to cooperate with other City officials in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specifically imposed upon said police
officers by this title and any other traffic or related ordinances of the City.
   B.   The Chief of Police and all assistants are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal, in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances. In the event of a fire, other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   C.   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist police
officers in directing traffic. (2007 Code § 18-14)
7-1-6: NECESSITY OF SIGNS:
No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (2007 Code § 18-152)
7-1-7: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND LICENSING:
   A.   Equipment: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not
equipped as required by law upon any street within the City. It shall also be
unlawful to fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in
a manner prohibited by law or to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon any street within the City.
   B.   Vehicle License: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind
upon a street of the City unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid
license plate thereon, as required by State law. (2007 Code § 18-153)
7-1-8: COMPULSORY LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, as used in this section, are hereby
defined to have the meanings set out below:
    COMMERCIAL AUTO COVERAGE: Coverage provided to an insured, regardless of
the number of vehicles or entity covered, under a commercial auto, garage or
truckers coverage form or rated from either a commercial manual or rating rule
as filed and approved by the State Insurance Department. Vehicle type and
ownership are not necessarily the primary factors in either underwriting the
coverage or rating the coverage.
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance, which
provides the minimum vehicle liability limits, in conjunction with the
operation of a motor vehicle in this State as found in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-600 et seq., as amended.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon the named
person by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by the named
person of any motor vehicle not owned by the named person, subject to the same
limits of liability required in an owner's policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of the vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized insurer providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204, as amended, or in the case
of a commercial automobile insurance policy, coverage may be issued by an
unauthorized insurer as allowed pursuant to 36 Oklahoma Statutes section 1106.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy meeting the minimum vehicle liability limits;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-330, as amended, having the equivalency of the minimum vehicle
liability limits;
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, as amended, having the equivalency of the minimum vehicle
liability limits; or
      4.   For vehicles registered pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1127, as amended, a policy meeting or exceeding the minimum
vehicle liability limits; provided the policy may be issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state of residence or domicile of the
member of the Armed Forces and the motor license agent or other registering
agency shall accept the security verification form issued by such insurance
company.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the State Insurance
Commissioner, verifying the existence of security required by the Compulsory
Insurance Law. Said form shall contain the following minimum information:
      1.   The name, address, and the 5-digit National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (NAIC) company code of the carrier;
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the agent or office where
the existence of security may be verified, if other than the carrier;
      3.   The name of the named insured; provided, the address of the named
insured shall not be included;
      4.   A notice that an owner's liability insurance policy has been issued
pursuant to the Compulsory Insurance Law;
      5.   The year of manufacture, make, model, and the vehicle identification
number of each insured motor vehicle;
      6.   The inclusive dates the motor vehicle liability insurance is in
effect;
      7.   The policy number;
      8.   A warning to the owner that State law:
a. Requires a current copy of the owner's security verification form must be
surrendered to the motor agent or other registering agency upon application or
renewal for a motor vehicle license plate,
b. Requires the other copy of the owner's security verification form to be
carried in the motor vehicle at all times, and produced by any driver of the
vehicle upon request for inspection by any peace officer or representative of
the State Department of Public Safety. In case of an accident, the security
verification form shall be shown upon request of any person affected by the
accident; and
      9.   The statement: "Examine policy exclusions carefully. This form does
not constitute any part of your insurance policy."
   B.   Liability Insurance Required:
      1.   Every owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State, other than
a licensed used motor vehicle dealer, shall, at all times, maintain in force
with respect to such vehicle security for the payment of loss resulting from
the liability imposed by law for bodily injury, death and property damage
sustained by any person arising out of the ownership, maintenance, operation or
use of the vehicle. Every person, while operating or using a motor vehicle
registered in this State which is not owned by the person, shall maintain in
force security for the payment of loss resulting from the liability imposed by
law for bodily injury, death or property damage sustained by any person arising
out of the operation or use of the vehicle, unless the security has been
provided by the owner in accordance with this section which does not exclude
the person from coverage.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided by law, no motor vehicle shall be operated
within the corporate limits of the City unless there is in effect with respect
to the vehicle security for the payment of loss resulting from the liability
imposed by law for bodily injury, death and property damage sustained by any
person arising out of the ownership, maintenance, operation or use of the
vehicle. Every person, while operating or using a motor vehicle in this State
which is not owned by the person, shall maintain in force security for the
payment of loss resulting from the liability imposed by law for bodily injury,
death or property damage sustained by any person arising out of the operation
or use of the vehicle, unless the security has been provided by the owner in
accordance with this section which does not exclude the person from coverage.
   C.   Proof Of Insurance Required:
      1.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State shall carry in
the vehicle at all times a current owner's security verification form listing
the vehicle or an equivalent form which has been issued by the State Department
of Public Safety; and every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this
State shall, while operating or using such vehicle, carry either an operator's
or an owner's security verification form issued by an insurance carrier or an
equivalent form issued by the State Department of Public Safety, reflecting
liability coverage. The operator of the vehicle shall produce the form upon
request for inspection by any law enforcement officer or representative of the
State Department of Public Safety and, in case of an accident, the form shall
be shown upon request to any person affected by the accident. An owner's
security verification form issued to the owner of a motor vehicle may be used
as an operator's security verification form by an operator who is not the owner
of the motor vehicle, if the operator is not excluded from coverage on the
motor vehicle liability policy for the vehicle.
      2.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the State
Department of Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be
required to surrender a security verification form for vehicle registration
purposes:
         a.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the Federal or State government,
or any agency or political subdivision thereof;
         b.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
provisions of the Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the State
Corporation Commission which reflect a deposit or fleet policy;
         c.   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the State Corporation Commission or any other regulating entity;
         d.   Any licensed taxicab; and
         e.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly issue or promulgate
false or fraudulent information in connection with either an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form which has been
issued by the State Department of Public Safety.
   D.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   An owner or operator who fails to comply with the Compulsory
Insurance Law shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment; and, in addition thereto, shall be subject to
suspension of the driving privilege of the person in accordance with 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 7-605, as amended; provided, that if a requesting law
enforcement officer verifies valid and current security and compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law through the online verification system, there shall be
no violation of the Compulsory Insurance Law and no citation shall be issued.
Upon issuing a citation under this subsection, the law enforcement officer
issuing the citation may:
         a.   Seize the vehicle being operated by the person and cause the
vehicle to be towed and stored as provided by 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
955A, if the officer has probable cause to believe that the vehicle is not
insured as required by the Compulsory Insurance Law of this State; or
         b.   Seize the license plate of the vehicle and issue the citation to
the vehicle operator; provided, that the vehicle is in a drivable condition at
the time of issuing the citation. A copy of the citation retained by the owner
or operator of the vehicle shall serve as the temporary license plate of the
vehicle for up to ten (10) calendar days after the issuance of the citation.
After ten (10) calendar days, the vehicle shall not be used until the vehicle
operator or owner completes the requirements to retrieve the license plate.
      2.   After the issuance of the citation and confiscation of the vehicle
license plate, the citing officer may deposit the license plate with the
Waurika Police Department. The Waurika Police Department, at the time of
storing the license plate, shall perform all required procedures as provided by
47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-606, as amended.
   E.   Sentence Suspension Or Deferral: A sentence imposed for any violation
of this section may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   F.   Dismissal Of Charge Upon Proof Of Security Verification: Any person
producing proof in court that a current security verification form or
equivalent form which has been issued by the State Department of Public Safety
reflecting liability coverage for the person was in force at the time of the
alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of the charge. If proof of
security verification is presented to the court by no later than the business
day preceding the first scheduled court appearance date, the dismissal shall be
without payment of court costs. The court may access information from the
online verification system to confirm liability coverage. The court shall not
dismiss the fine unless proof that liability coverage for the person was in
force at the time the alleged offense is presented to the court.
   G.   Court Action Forwarded To State: Upon conviction or bond forfeiture,
the Court Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public
Safety within five (5) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (2007
Code § 18-153; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-9: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the City at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine whether it
is safe, properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment
and repair. (2007 Code § 18-154)
7-1-10: ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT SCENE:
   A.   Reporting Accident: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person,
or damage to any vehicle or other property to an apparent extent of more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00), shall, as soon as practicable, report such
accident to the Chief of Police or to the Police Department. Making out a
written report of the accident in the Police Department, as soon as practicable
after the accident (to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with State law), shall be deemed compliance with this section.
   B.   Leaving Scene Of Accident: Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined
by current State law, shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the
City. (2007 Code § 18-16)
7-1-11: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let fall
and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property or render a
street unsafe for traffic. (2007 Code § 18-159)
7-1-12: CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Street Closure; Erecting Barricades: Municipal personnel, contractors
or utility companies, while repairing or improving the streets of the City, or
when installing, improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in
the streets, are hereby authorized, subject to control by the City Commission,
to close any street, or section thereof, to traffic during such activity and
shall erect or cause to be erected, proper control devices and barricades to
warn the public that such street has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Driving Through Or Around Barricades: When any street has been closed
to traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and traffic-
control devices or barricades have been erected, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle under, over, around or through such traffic-control
devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area (except that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance and repair, to persons having their places of
residence or business within such closed area, who may travel through such area
at their own risk).
   C.   Warning Devices: Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any
street, utility line or facility is being performed, and the street is not
closed to traffic in accord with this section, the Municipal personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect warning devices for the
public. Every person using such street shall obey such warning devices. (2007
Code § 18-156)
7-1-13: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS:
   A.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work. (2007 Code § 18-157)
7-1-14: PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Application Of Section: Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control
signals, but, at all other places, shall be granted those rights and be subject
to those restrictions in this section. (2007 Code § 18-140)
   B.   Driver And Pedestrian Regulations:
      1.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
      2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety, or walk or
run into the path of a vehicle.
      3.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (2007 Code § 18-141)
      4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, every
driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary, and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (2007 Code § 18-142)
7-1-15: SEAT BELT USAGE; CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM:
   A.   Seat Belt Requirements:
      1.   The words and phrases used in this subsection shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-101 et
seq., except when the context otherwise requires or other definitions are
provided.
      2.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a Class A commercial
motor vehicle, Class B commercial motor vehicle, Class C commercial motor
vehicle, or a passenger vehicle operated in the City shall wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the
motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49 CFR section 571.208.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, "passenger vehicle" shall mean a
Class D motor vehicle, but shall not include trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles, or a vehicle used
primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
      4.   An exemption from the provisions of this subsection A shall exist
for a person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt
system. Notification of said exemption shall be in the form of a restriction
appearing on the driver's license or State-issued identification card of the
exempted individual.
      5.   This subsection A shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle
while performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   B.   Child Passenger Restraint System:
      1.   For purposes of this section, "child passenger restraint system"
means an infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the Federal
standards as set by 49 CFR section 571.213.
      2.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways within the
corporate limits of the City, shall provide for the protection of said child by
properly using a child passenger restraint system as follows:
         a.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in
a child passenger restraint system. Except as provided in subsection B1 of this
section, the child passenger restraint system shall be rear-facing until the
child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child reaches the weight or
height limit of the rear-facing child passenger restraint system as allowed by
the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system, whichever occurs
first; and
         b.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8)
years of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height, shall
be properly secured in either a child passenger restraint system or child
booster seat.
      3.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than four feet
nine inches (4'9") in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall
be sufficient to meet the requirements of this subsection B.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection B shall not apply to:
         a.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to State
or Federal laws;
         b.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         c.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         d.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
         e.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40)
pounds and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing
only a lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. For purposes of this subsection, back seat
shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by
a licensed child care facility or church. Provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
subsection if, at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
child care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than forty
(40) pounds.
      5.   Any person convicted of violating subsection B2 of this section
shall be punished by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall pay all court
costs thereof. This fine shall be suspended and the court costs limited to a
maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) in the case of the first offense upon proof
of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
      6.   A driver of a vehicle who has been rightfully issued a detachable
placard indicating physical disability under the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 15-112, or a physically disabled license plate under the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1135.1 or 1135.2, and a valid letter
of forward-facing exemption issued from the State Department of Public Safety,
shall be permitted to transport a child passenger under four (4) years of age
in a forward-facing child passenger restraint system. The placard and forward-
facing exemption letter must be present in the vehicle to be in compliance.
(2007 Code § 18-165; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-16: ELECTRONIC TEXT MESSAGING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message, means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or hands free device that allows the user to write, send or read
a text message without the use of either hand except to activate, deactivate or
initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle on any street or highway within the City while using a hand held
electronic communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic
text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection B of this section shall not
apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of
subsection B of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 10515-1, 10-5-2015, eff. 11-
1-2015)
7-1-17: CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation Tags: Police officers are hereby authorized to
give notice to persons violating provisions of this title, by delivering
citation tags to violators or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are
parked or stopped in violation of this title, by affixing such tags to the
vehicles by means of which the violation occurred. Such citation tags shall
indicate briefly the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle
and shall direct the violator to present the tag at the police station or other
designated place with ten (10) days, or such other reasonable time as may be
specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest
any violator, to take said person into custody or to file a complaint against
any violator at any time.
   B.   City Commission Regulate Use Of Tags: The City Commission may require
that police officers use serially numbered citation tags furnished by the City
Clerk, and said City Commission may also regulate the use and handling of
citation tags.
   C.   Failure To Comply; Procedure:
      1.   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a
citation tag as provided in this section, fails to appear in accordance with
the instructions of such tag, the Chief of Police or an authorized agent shall
send a letter or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle involved,
informing said person of the violation, warning said person to appear and
directing that, in the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period
of five (5) days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued;
provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge the power to file a
complaint prior to the expiration of such time.
      2.   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person, or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and said
Judge shall issue a warrant for said person's arrest. (2007 Code § 18-12)
7-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title,
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title or fails to perform any act
required in this title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the limits established in
section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 18-200)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE OPERATION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Speed Regulations
7-2-2: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-2-3: Driving On Sidewalks
7-2-4: Following Too Closely
7-2-5: Backing
7-2-6: Stopped School Bus
7-2-7: Driving By Unauthorized Persons
7-2-8: Reckless Driving
7-2-9: Driving Under The Influence
7-2-10: Riding Motorcycle, Motor-Driven Cycle, Motorized Scooter, Bicycle Or
Electric-Assisted Bicycle
7-2-11: Riding Or Clinging To Vehicles
7-2-12: Funeral Processions
7-2-13: Eluding Police Officer
7-2-14: Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Fire Hose
7-2-15: Obstruction Of Driver's View
7-2-1: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Careful And Prudent Driving: No person shall drive a vehicle on any
street within the corporate limits of the City at a speed greater or less than
is reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing (including, among
other things, the condition of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility,
amount of traffic, presence of pedestrians and any obstruction of view).
   B.   Stopping Ability: No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a
speed greater than will permit a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   C.   Limits Specified: No person shall drive any vehicle, except an
authorized emergency vehicle (as provided in section
7-2-2 of this chapter), at a speed greater than:
      1.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour on any street adjacent to any school, or
in any school zone, between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on days when school is in session, unless otherwise posted; and
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified in subsection C1 of this
section, unless otherwise posted. (2007 Code § 18-11)
   D.   City personnel, subject to such direction as the Board of City
Commissioners may give by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the
speed limits provided in this code, and when so provided, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
high speed limit. (amd. Ord. 03092020-03, 3-9-2020)
Statutory reference: Basic and minimum speed rules, 47 O.S. sections 15-102,11-
803
7-2-2: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Driver Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privilege set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions
herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as speeding does not
endanger life or property;
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; and
         e.   Disregard regulations governing turning in specified directions.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver is properly and lawfully
making use of an audible signal or of flashing red or blue lights or a
combination of flashing red and blue lights meeting the requirements of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue
light visible from in front of the vehicle. This subsection shall not be
construed as requiring a peace officer operating a police vehicle properly and
lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use audible signals.
      4.   The exemptions in subsections A2c and A2e of this section shall be
granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized emergency vehicle
for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual signals required
by this section as long as the action does not endanger life or property if the
officer is following a suspected violator of the law with probable cause to
believe that:
         a.   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            (1)   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
            (2)   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            (3)   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect.
         b.   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to the
audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
The exceptions granted in this subsection shall not apply to an officer who is
in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to elude the officer
in violation of 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 540A.
      5.   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   B.   Procedure Upon Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Upon the
immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible and
visual signals meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal or
red flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer. (2007 Code § 18-13; amd. 2019 Code)
7-2-3: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (2007 Code § 18-20)
7-2-4: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is
reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon, and the condition of, the roadway. (2007 Code § 18-21)
7-2-5: BACKING:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane; no extended backing shall be permitted. (2007 Code § 18-22)
7-2-6: STOPPED SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by State law) when such
bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging or taking on passengers, and is
displaying flashing red lights, as required by State law.
   B.   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus (as
described in subsection A of this section), regardless of the direction of said
approach. (2007 Code § 18-16)
7-2-7: DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver's
license, as required by State law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the City.
   B.   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
City.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle owned by, or under said person's control, to be
driven upon any of the streets or highways of the City by any person who is not
authorized, under the laws of the State, to operate such vehicle. (2007 Code §
18-17)
7-2-8: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the corporate
limits of the City in a careless, negligent or reckless manner, without regard
for the safety of persons, property or the lawful use of the streets; such
person shall be guilty of reckless driving. (2007 Code § 18-18)
7-2-9: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs or other controlled, dangerous substances, to drive,
or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the corporate limits of
the City. (2007 Code § 18-19)
7-2-10: RIDING MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE, MOTORIZED SCOOTER, BICYCLE OR
ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE:
   A.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall drive a motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, motorized scooter, motorized bicycle, or an electric-
assisted bicycle on any highway of this State while transporting any other
person.
   B.   The operator of a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motorized scooter,
motorized bicycle, or electric-assisted bicycle who has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years or older may carry a passenger if the vehicle has a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater and is factory-designed and equipped
with either:
      1.   A double seating device with double foot rests; or
      2.   A sidecar attachment providing a separate seat space within such
sidecar attachment for each person riding therein so that such person shall be
seated entirely within the body of said sidecar.
   C.   No rider of a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motorized scooter,
motorized bicycle, or electric-assisted bicycle shall hold to any moving
vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   D.   No driver of a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motorized scooter,
motorized bicycle, or electric-assisted bicycle shall pass other vehicles
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. This subsection shall
not apply to the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle. (2007 Code § 18-
155; amd. 2019 Code)
7-2-11: RIDING OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or persons riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   B.   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboard,
sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same to any vehicle upon a roadway. (2007
Code § 18-158)
7-2-12: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   B.   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers. (2007 Code § 18-160)
7-2-13: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who has
received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or a siren) from a
police officer driving a motor vehicle, with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, Sheriff or Highway Patrol car, directing the operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, to wilfully increase his speed or extinguish his lights
in an attempt to elude such police officer, to wilfully attempt, in any other
manner, to elude the police officer, or to elude such police officer. (2007
Code § 18-161)
7-2-14: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle, other than when on
official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm, closer than five hundred feet (500'), or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (2007 Code § 18-162)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of any Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department in command. (2007 Code § 18-163)
7-2-15: OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three (3) as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to
interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2007 Code § 18-164)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Installation Of Traffic-Control Devices
7-3-2: Specifications For Traffic-Control Devices
7-3-3: Turn Signs And Indicators
7-3-4: Designation And Marking Of Streets And Crosswalks
7-3-5: Unauthorized Signs Or Devices
7-3-6: Classification Of Streets
7-3-1: INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
The City Commission shall have traffic-control signs, signals and devices
placed and maintained, as required under the ordinances of the City, to make
the provisions of such ordinances effective. (2007 Code § 18-70)
7-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the Oklahoma State Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the City. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
State law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices. (2007 Code §
18-71)
7-3-3: TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS:
   A.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-
turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of
such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours, in which event, the same shall be plainly indicated on said signs.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected, indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   C.   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red or stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop. (2007 Code §
18-72)
7-3-4: DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF STREETS AND CROSSWALKS:
   A.   One-Way Streets: Whenever the City Commission designates any street,
alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, said City Commission shall
have signs placed, giving notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited. (2007 Code § 18-73)
   B.   Traffic Lanes:
      1.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes
marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
      2.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes, except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (2007 Code § 18-75)
   C.   Crosswalks: The City Commission shall have the authority to designate,
by appropriate devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway. (2007 Code § 18-76)
7-3-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display, upon or in view of any
highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which project
any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   C.   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement, upon
private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the City Commission is hereby empowered
to remove the same, or cause it to be removed. (2007 Code § 18-77)
7-3-6: CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS:
   A.   The City Commission may adopt, by resolution, a Street Classification
System for the City. Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall be the duty of
said City Commission to have stop signs placed and maintained, or if deemed
more appropriate at any intersection, yield signs, on each and every street
involved in the implementation of the Classification System (unless traffic at
any intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals).
   B.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      1.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      2.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   C.   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway. (2007 Code § 18-78)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-4-2: Angle Parking
7-4-3: Parallel Parking; Setting Brake
7-4-4: Parking On Private Property; Truck Parking
7-4-5: Loading Zones
7-4-6: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
7-4-1: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, or if in an area
serviced by a Volunteer Fire Department, within thirty feet (30') of a fire
hydrant if the Governing Body of the area so adopts by ordinance.
      4.   Within an intersection.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the authority having jurisdiction indicates a different length by signs
or marking.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance (when properly signposted).
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person engaging in the collection and disposal of solid waste or
recycling material or both as a business, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma Solid Waste Management Act, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in
any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   Within an intersection;
      3.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      4.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway underpass; or
      5.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   C.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under the control of the
person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful. (2007 Code § 18-100; amd. 2019 Code)
7-4-2: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   The City Commission may determine upon what streets and parts of
streets angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or
signed.
   B.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings, or outside of the area
enclosed by said markings. (2007 Code § 18-101)
7-4-3: PARALLEL PARKING; SETTING BRAKE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to, and within
eighteen inches (18") of, the right-hand curb; provided, that every vehicle
stopped or parked upon the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are
adjacent curbs, shall be parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel
to, and within eighteen inches (18") of, the left-hand curb.
   B.   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. (2007 Code § 18-
102)
7-4-4: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer upon
the posted private property of another without first obtaining permission from
the person in charge of such property, except where said placing or parking is
involuntary.
   B.   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause any motor
vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours to be
removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The Police Department
or any police officer is also authorized to remove any unauthorized vehicles
from private property upon direction of the owner of the property or persons in
charge of the property. The City of Waurika, any landowner or person in charge
of the property shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to the
trespassing vehicle or trailer under the terms of this section, while the same
is trespassing, while it is being removed from said property or while it is in
storage.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck or trailer over one
ton capacity or being used for transport of gasoline or liquefied petroleum gas
on any street or alley in any residential area of the City. (2007 Code § 18-
103)
7-4-5: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall have appropriate signs
placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions
of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading zones may
be changed or discontinued.
   B.   When such a loading zone is established upon the request of any person,
firm or corporation, the City Commission shall not have signs placed until the
applicant has paid to the City Clerk an amount of money estimated by said City
Commission to be adequate to reimburse the City for all costs of establishing
the signing of the same.
   C.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length
of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone, during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. (2007 Code §
18-105)
7-4-6: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or ordinance
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   B.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure of
giving a citation tag has been followed. (2007 Code § 18-104)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
7-5-1: Injurious Vehicles; Oversized Vehicle Permits
7-5-2: Size And Weight Of Vehicles; Truck Routes
7-5-3: Mufflers And Cutouts
7-5-1: INJURIOUS VEHICLES; OVERSIZED VEHICLE PERMITS:
   A.   No vehicle or object which injures, or is likely to injure, any street
within the City shall be driven or moved on any street within the City.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed or so loaded as to cause, or be likely to cause, a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property, without having obtained an
oversized vehicle permit from the Office of the City Clerk. (2007 Code § 18-50)
7-5-2: SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by State
laws, except in accordance with a permit issued by State authority.
   B.   Except for the purpose of making local deliveries, vehicles required by
State Statute to be licensed or permitted for three (3) ton or greater
capacity, shall be prohibited from using any public street, alley or place
within the City for travel, except legally designated truck routes or State and
Federal highways.
   C.   The City Commission may prescribe routes through the City for the use
of trucks and/or other vehicles, which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through the City. When it is necessary for vehicles of the
class hereinabove described to travel to and from a location on any of the
City's public streets, alleys or places for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise, or the provision of necessary services at such location, the route
traveled shall be as short and direct as possible from and to the most
available, legally designated truck route or State or Federal highway.
   D.   The City Commission shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are
placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes. When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the City, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in
case of emergency. (2007 Code § 18-51)
7-5-3: MUFFLERS AND CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the City unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler, cutout, or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle, except that exhaust whistles may be used on
authorized emergency vehicles. (2007 Code § 18-52)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS, UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Traffic Laws Applicable
7-6-2: Bicycle Equipment
7-6-3: Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
7-6-4: Riding Bicycles Or Motorized Scooters
7-6-5: Utility Terrain Vehicle And Golf Carts
7-6-1: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE:
Every person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be
granted all the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring the rules of the
road applicable to vehicles, or by the ordinances of the City applicable to the
driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and to
those provisions of State law or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application. (2007 Code § 18-120; amd. 2019 Code)
7-6-2: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every bicycle in use at the times described in subsection B of this
section shall be equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light
visible from a distance of at least one thousand feet (1,000') to the front,
and with a lamp on the rear emitting a red light visible from a distance of at
least one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear. This section shall not apply to a
street or highway with a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per hour or
less.
   B.   Every bicycle in use at the following times shall properly display all
lamps and illuminating devices:
      1.   At any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one- half (1/2)
hour before sunrise, also referred to as nighttime; and
      2.   At any other time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not clearly
discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') or less.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a red reflector which shall be
visible for six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. (2007 Code § 18-121; amd.
2019 Code)
7-6-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall obey the
instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the bicycle or motorized scooter to make any such turn, in which event, such
person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (2007 Code §
18-122; amd. 2019 Code)
7-6-4: RIDING BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED SCOOTERS:
   A.   No bicycle or motorized scooter shall be used to carry more persons at
a time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   B.   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same direction.
   C.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles or motorized scooters has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle or motorized scooter riders shall use
such path and not the roadway.
   D.   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   E.   The operator of a bicycle or motorized scooter emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall yield the right-of- way to all approaching
pedestrians, and upon entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on such roadway.
   F.   The City Commission is authorized to have signs placed on any sidewalk
or trafficway prohibiting the riding of bicycles or motorized scooters thereon
by any person; when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
(2007 Code § 18-123; amd. 2019 Code)
7-6-5: UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE AND GOLF CARTS:
A utility terrain vehicle means a vehicle powered by an internal combustion
engine, manufactured and used exclusively for off highway use, equipped with
seating for two or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four or more
wheels. This definition does not include all-terrain vehicles (ATVs).
A golf cart means a vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation
on a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
The operator of a Utility Terrain Vehicle and/or a Golf Cart on a city street
shall be a licensed driver, who shall be at least sixteen (t6) years of age and
who shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring the
rules of the road applicable to vehicles, or by the ordinances of the City
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this
section and except as to those provisions of laws which by their nature can
have no application.
Without limiting the above, all Utility Terrain Vehicles and Golf Carts
operated on city streets within the City of Waurika shall be equipped with
brake lights, headlights, turn signals, and a horn. All operators of a Utility
Terrain Vehicle and/or Golf Cart operated on a city street shall carry
liability insurance insured through a licensed insurance company in amounts as
determined by state law. (Ord. 07112022-16, 7-11-2022; amd. Ord. 08082022-17,
8-8-2022)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment
7-7-2: Authority To Impound Vehicles
7-7-3: Causes Of Impoundment
7-7-4: Place Of Impoundment
7-7-5: Duration Of Impoundment
7-7-6: Redemption And Release Of Vehicle
7-7-7: Abandoned, Wrecked Or Nonoperating Vehicles
7-7-8: Service Impound Fee
7-7-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety, welfare and safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the City from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (2007 Code § 18-30)
7-7-2: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   A.   The Chief of Police of the City, and members of the Police Department,
are hereby authorized, within the limits set forth in this title, to impound
vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   B.   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer, and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
chapter and other policies of the City. (2007 Code § 18-34)
7-7-3: CAUSES OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded, under the
following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      2.   If left unattended longer than seventy two (72) hours on the
shoulder of any highway; or
      3.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   B.   Any unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway or
within the structure of a grade separation may be impounded.
   C.   Whenever the driver, or person in charge, of any vehicle is placed
under arrest, taken into custody, and detained by police under circumstances
which leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the
vehicle may be impounded.
   D.   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare, and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic, shall be impounded.
   E.   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the City for a period of seventy two (72)
hours, or more, the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and
if the owner of the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the
owner shall be notified of the action by the Police Department.
   F.   A trespassing unattended vehicle may be impounded when the required
complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal occupant who
complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the
owner's (or legal occupant's) property; if the identity of the person parking
the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered
owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the
complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the
vehicle is parked or standing. Upon filing of the complaint by the property
owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a
violation has occurred, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded and placed in storage.
   G.   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited, and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition, may be impounded.
   H.   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
   I.   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   J.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight (8) hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle (or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department If the
registered owner is identified, located and notified of the recovery of the
stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make arrangements for the
removal of the vehicle within a period of twenty four (24) hours from the time
he or she is actually notified of its recovery; if the owner is unable or
unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may be
impounded.
   K.   Any vehicle improperly parked or otherwise obstructing rights-of-ways
or easements to public utilities, as provided in section 8-1-4 of this Code,
maybe impounded. (2007 Code § 18-35; amd. Ord. 09132021-06, 9-13-2021)
7-7-4: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage, or other place of safekeeping designated by the
City Commission, and shall not be removed to any other place. (2007 Code § 18-
31)
7-7-5: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this Code shall be stored and held safely until a written order
for its release, signed by the Chief of Police (or a designated representative)
has been issued.
   B.   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      1.   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle, by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      2.   Payment of all fines and costs due the City because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle, or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation. (2007 Code § 18-32)
7-7-6: REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment, together with payment (or tender of payment) of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   B.   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to release vehicles which have been
impounded (and accept agreements and bonds to save the City harmless by such
releases) to persons other than the registered owner of the vehicle.
   C.   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit (by
written instruments or other documents), to the City Clerk and the Chief of
Police, proof of compliance with the following requirements:
      1.   Proof of interest; and
      2.   Agreement to save and hold harmless the City, and all of its
employees. (2007 Code § 18-33)
7-7-7: ABANDONED, WRECKED OR NONOPERATING VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to abandon a motor vehicle on a highway, shoulder
or right-of-way within the City limits of the City of Waurika. Any officer of
the Waurika Police Department shall deem such vehicle abandoned and shall have
the authority to remove or direct the removal of a vehicle when found upon any
portion of the highway, shoulder, or right-of-way, if after a period of forty-
eight (48) hours there is no evidence of an apparent owner who intends to
remove the vehicle.
   B.   If such officer has reasonable cause to believe a vehicle has been
abandoned in a location which would be hazardous to the free flow of traffic or
be highly susceptible to damage from vandalism or other harm, he shall have the
authority to remove or direct the removal of the vehicle immediately. At the
time of ordering the removal of an abandoned vehicle, the authorizing officer
shall also determine the sale value of the vehicle and certify that amount on
the removal order.
   C.   Any such officer who has directed the impoundment of any vehicle, or an
authorized person in the employing agency of the officer, shall within seventy
two (72) hours of the impoundment notify the Department of Public Safety of
such impoundment. The notice of impoundment shall contain the name and address
of the owner, if known, the make, model, vehicle identification number,
registration number, date stored, place stored and the estimated value of the
vehicle as determined by the officer. Upon receipt of such notice of
impoundment, the Department of Public Safety shall, within seventy two (72)
hours, request the Oklahoma Tax Commission or other appropriate motor license
agent to furnish the name and address of the owner of and any lienholder on the
vehicle and shall within three (3) days from receipt of the requested
information send a notice to the owner and any lienholder by regular mail,
postage prepaid, at the addresses furnished by the Tax Commission or motor
license agent, of the location of the vehicle.
   D.   After the removal or storage of any abandoned or wrecked vehicle at the
request of the Waurika Police Department, the registered or legal owner of the
vehicle, or their agent, may contest the validity of the removal or storage, by
filing a written request for a hearing with the City Clerk for the City of
Waurika. The written request may be filed before or after the vehicle is
retrieved from the storage operator. Provided, however, the City shall not be
required to conduct a hearing if the request is received more than ten (10)
days following actual or constructive notice to the owner or driver of the
vehicle that said vehicle has been so removed or stored. Any such hearing shall
be scheduled within seventy two (72) hours of the request, excluding weekends
and holidays. The Administrative Body consisting of the City Manager, Chief of
the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police Department is authorized to
conduct the hearing regarding the directed the removal or storage of the
vehicle. At least two (2) members of the Administrative Body shall appear for
hearings and a finding against a property owner requires a majority vote of the
Administrative Body. The Administrative Body may, with the consent of the
person requesting the hearing, schedule the hearing by telephone and conduct
the hearing on the merits by telephone conference call.
   E.   The Administrative Body shall apply the law to the evidence and make a
determination whether the vehicle removal and storage was justified. If deemed
unjustified, the City of Waurika shall bear the cost of hookup and tow mileage,
and the operator shall waive all storage costs in such cases as a condition of
eligibility to respond to a service call request from the City of Waurika. The
vehicle owner or agent shall not be charged any type of fee or costs relating
to impoundment or storage in such case. If the tow and storage is deemed
justified, the owner or agent shall bear the cost of reasonable tow and
storage. In either case, prior to the release of the vehicle to the owner or
agent, proof of security or an affidavit that the vehicle will not be used on
public highways or public streets, as required pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes
title 47 sections 7-600 et seq., shall be furnished to the City of Waurika.
   F.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or their agent, to
timely request or to timely appear upon a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the
hearing requirement of this section. The owner of a stored vehicle may, either
in lieu of such hearing or after such hearing, file a petition in the District
Court of Jefferson County. The District Court is vested with original
jurisdiction to conduct a de novo hearing and determine the validity of removal
and storage.
   G.   The owner of a motor vehicle or lienholder of the vehicle abandoned in
violation of this section, or the owner of any vehicle or lienholder of the
vehicle or insurer accepting liability for paying a claim on a vehicle or
purchasing the vehicle as a total loss vehicle from the registered owner which
shall have been lawfully removed from any highway or other public property may
regain possession of the vehicle in accordance with regulations of the
Department of Public Safety upon payment of the reasonable cost of removal and
storage of such vehicle. The operator is authorized to collect all lawful fees
from the owner, lienholder that seeks possession of a vehicle under a security
interest, agent, or insurer accepting liability for paying the claim for a
vehicle or purchasing the vehicle as a total loss vehicle from the registered
owner of the towed vehicle for the performance of any and all such services. An
operator shall release the vehicle from storage upon authorization from the
owner, agent or lienholder of the vehicle or in the case of a total loss, the
insurer accepting liability for paying the claim on the vehicle or purchasing
the vehicle where the vehicle is to be moved to an insurance pool yard for
sale. The cost of removal and storage shall be paid to the wrecker or towing
service. (amd. Ord. 06082020-11, 6-8-2020)
7-7-8: SERVICE IMPOUND FEE:
Any vehicle impounded pursuant to municipal ordinances and/or violations of
state law, tribal code and/or federal law shall be subject to a service impound
fee. The service impound fee amount shall be set forth by Resolution. (Ord.
01092023-01, 1-9-2023)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Street Department
8-1-2: Trees And Shrubbery
8-1-3: Rights-Of-Way And Easements
8-1-4: Obstructing Rights-Of-Way
8-1-5: Drainage Of Polluting Substance
8-1-6: Penalty
8-1-1: STREET DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Supervisor: There shall be a Street Department, the head of which may
be the Public Works Director or a Street Department Superintendent. The
supervisor shall be approved by the City Manager. The duties are as described
in title 9, chapter 1 of this Code.
   B.   Employees: The number of employees will be dependent on available
funds. The City Manager shall make the determination when preparing the annual
budget, but may add employees later in the year if funds are available. (2007
Code § 1-59)
8-1-2: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Required:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley, in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks or alleys.
      2.   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the owner,
such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as herein
required of the owner.
   B.   Injuring; Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any
tree or shrubbery within any public right-of-way; provided, that this shall not
prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
   C.   Obstructing View; Sight Triangle: Any owner, lessee or occupant of any
property abutting on any street shall not allow any manmade or natural view
obstruction at any corner intersection, particularly within the "sight
triangle" created by definition in the City's adopted Zoning Ordinance. (2007
Code § 17-1)
8-1-3: RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Obstructing: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to obstruct or otherwise prevent access to any publicly used street, alley,
easement or other Municipally owned property, whether platted or unplatted;
provided, that the City may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys,
easements and Municipally owned properties from time to time, in the public
interest.
   B.   Fencing Property; Right Of Ingress And Egress By City: The City
Commission may permit certain streets, alleys, easements and Municipal
properties which are dedicated, but not required for traffic or other public
access or use, to be fenced or otherwise made inaccessible to the public (as in
the case of land being farmed or grazed as a part of a larger field or
pasture); provided, that said City Commission or any of its officers or
employees shall have the right of ingress, egress and easement for the purpose
of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading, mowing or any other
activity which is in the public interest.
   C.   Restrictions On Persons With Fencing: Persons, companies, corporations
or individuals who have fenced in, or are farming or grazing dedicated, but
unopened, streets, alleys, easements or Municipally owned properties, as
permitted above, shall:
      1.   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      2.   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      3.   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning the
property, upon notice by the City; and
      4.   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so by
a Municipal officer or employee.
   D.   Fencing Prohibited Within Dedicated Road Rights-Of-Way: It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, erect, build, or
cause to be constructed, erected or built, any fence, of whatever height or
material, within any dedicated road right-of-way in the City.
   E.   Use of Alleys by Commercial Vehicles or Motor Vehicles used for Hire,
Compensation, or Commercial Purposes. It shall be unlawful for Commercial
Vehicles or Motor Vehicles used for Hire, Compensation, or Commercial Purposes
to enter any alley on which signs have been posted prohibiting such entrance.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to municipal vehicles,
companies which have a current contract with the City of Waurika and which
receive written permission from the City Manager to utilize municipal alleys to
perform contractual obligations, and this subsection shall not affect the right
to maintain, repair, reconstruct, operate or remove utility, public service
corporation or tansmission company facilities of service therein. (2007 Code §
17-2; amd. Ord. 04042023-03, 4-4-2023)
8-1-4: OBSTRUCTING RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements or public rights-of-way of the City in any manner so
as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon, or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of said easement or right-
of-way.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit,
throw or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas or sidewalks any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   D.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be open
or leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind in or upon any
street, sidewalk or alley of the City.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds, or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom, except where authorized to do so by the City
Commission; excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and protected
to prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life or limb.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or gutters. (2007 Code § 17-3)
8-1-5: DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any residence, business or industry to allow drainage
of a polluting substance, as defined by 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 1084.2, as
amended, into any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the City.
(2007 Code § 17-4; amd. 2019 Code)
8-1-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in section
8-1-2 of this chapter, after receiving ten (10) days' notice from the Chief of
Police to do so, shall be guilty of an offense.
   B.   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the limits
established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 17-100)
CHAPTER 2
LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-2-1: Library Established
8-2-2: Library Board; Membership
8-2-3: Librarian And Substitute Librarian
8-2-4: Funding
8-2-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The Waurika Public Library is hereby established. (2007 Code § 16-130)
8-2-2: LIBRARY BOARD; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation: The said library shall be
governed by a Library Board of five (5) members. They shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the City, with the approval of the Board of City Commissioners.
Appointments to the Library Board shall be made on the basis of ability,
understanding of responsibilities and objectives of public libraries, and an
active interest in the attainment of these goals. All Library Board members
shall serve thereon without compensation.
   B.   Terms: Terms of office of the members of the Library Board shall be as
follows: initial appointments shall be one member for a one-year term, two (2)
members for 2-year terms, and two (2) members for 3-year terms; the designation
of the length of term of each member so appointed to be specified in the
appointment. Subsequent appointments shall be for 3-year terms, except that
appointments to fill a vacancy shall be for the remainder of the unexpired
term. All terms of initial and succeeding appointments shall expire on June 30
of the designated year.
   C.   Removal: Any member of the board may be removed by the Mayor, acting in
conjunction with the Board of City Commissioners, for misconduct, malfeasance,
failure to attend meetings of the Library Board, or other neglect of duty.
   D.   Officers; Meetings; Rules:
      1.   Immediately after the initial appointments, and thereafter in July
of each year, the board members shall meet and elect one of their number as
Chairman for one year, and choose such other officers as they deem necessary.
      2.   They may provide for regular meetings and for the calling of any
special meetings; and they may adopt such rules and regulations for their own
procedures and for the government and operations of the library, as they deem
expedient, and not inconsistent with the ordinances of the City, or the laws of
the State of Oklahoma. (2007 Code § 16-130)
8-2-3: LIBRARIAN AND SUBSTITUTE LIBRARIAN:
   A.   Appointment: A librarian to carry on the actual operation of the
library facilities shall be appointed by the City Manager, on the
recommendation of the Library Board, and shall hold such appointment at the
pleasure of the appointing authority. (2007 Code §§ 1-33, 16-130)
   B.   Qualifications; Processing Applications: The Librarian shall be
selected on the basis of technical and personal qualifications. All
applications for the job of Librarian shall be sent to the Secretary or
Treasurer of the Library Board and shall be kept strictly confidential and
available to City Commission and Library Board members only. All applications
will be reviewed by the Library Board and the selection made on the basis of
their qualifications and a ballot vote.
   C.   Probationary Period: The Librarian shall serve a probationary period of
one year.
   D.   Report To Library Board: The Librarian shall submit, at each regular
Library Board meeting, the number of books checked out, the number of new
readers, all correspondence received of importance, or anything of importance
regarding the Municipal Library.
   E.   Duties:
      1.   The Librarian should attend appropriate workshops and sessions,
whenever and wherever available, and shall contact and inform groups or
organizations of any special service offered, or changes in procedure.
      2.   The Librarian shall keep a list of all books and bulletins, shall
post said list on the bulletin board for the benefit of readers, and shall also
keep a record of all donations of books, magazines, etc., for possible entry in
the newspaper.
   F.   Substitute Librarian: The person who assists the Librarian shall be
called the Substitute Librarian, and will be selected by the Librarian. The
Substitute Librarian shall be responsible to the Librarian and carry out
whatever the Librarian requires to be done. (2007 Code § 1-33)
8-2-4: FUNDING:
The Mayor and Board of City Commissioners shall provide such funds in the
annual City budget as they shall deem necessary to appropriate for the support
and operation of the library in each fiscal year. (2007 Code § 16-130)
CHAPTER 3
PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rules And Regulations
8-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Hours: The park and recreational areas and facilities owned and
operated by the City shall be closed to the public from one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
of each night until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to remain in or upon said areas or facilities
between said hours for any purpose.
   B.   Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicles to be used
in or upon said park areas or facilities, except in those areas designated (by
markings or signs) as roadways, driveways or parking areas, within said park
areas or facilities.
   C.   Damage Or Destruction of City Equipment Or Property: It shall be
unlawful for any person or group of persons to damage, remove, deface or
destroy any equipment or property owned by the City located within said park
areas or facilities.
   D.   Overnight Camping Prohibited: The City's public park areas may not be
used for overnight camping purposes by any person, firm or corporation, whether
a resident or a nonresident of the City.
   E.   Use Agreement: Any individual or organization seeking to use city
property for a public or private activity must apply at the office of the City
Clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the planned event. The
City Manager shall prepare an agreement for the use of the city property, which
shall include reasonable rules and regulations and provide that the individual
or organization shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from all damages,
claims and demands of any person by reason of the operations and conduct of the
individual or organization on city property. The City Manager is hereby
authorized to sign the agreement and both the City Manager and the individual
or authorized representative of the organization must sip the agreement prior
to the planned event. If the City Manager refuses to authorize the event, the
individual or organization may appeal that decision to the Board of City
Commissioners.
   F.   Use Fee. The Board of City Commissioners shall adopt a fee schedule by
resolution for the use of city property. (2007 Code § 16-100; amd. Ord.
04112022-08, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
   [Reserved by Ord. 07102023-04, 7-10-2023.]
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Improvement Of Certain Streets And Alleys
8-5-2: Climbing On Trains
8-5-3: Loitering On Railroad Premises
8-5-4: Blocking Of Streets By Trains
8-5-5: Penalty
8-5-1: IMPROVEMENT OF CERTAIN STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   When a railway occupies or crosses any portion of a street with its
tracks either on or adjacent thereto, the railroad company shall improve as
much of the street as is occupied by its tracks and two feet (2') on either
side thereof, in a manner satisfactory to the City Commission.
   B.   Whenever a railroad company crosses or occupies an alley with its
tracks, such company shall improve, drain, grade and/or pave such alley, in
order to eliminate problems created by the presence of its tracks.
   C.   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of one
hundred feet (100') (measuring from inside rail to inside rail), the railroad
company shall grade, drain and curb the street area between its tracks and
surface, in a manner satisfactory to the City Commission.
   D.   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
good state of repair at all times. (2007 Code § 19-1)
8-5-2: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any
manner attach to, any train or railroad car, while such is in motion within the
City unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
   B.   It shall also be unlawful to board any train or railroad car
(passenger, freight or other) without a proper ticket or the permission of the
person in charge of the train or railroad car, or not in the line of duty.
(2007 Code § 19-2)
8-5-3: LOITERING ON RAILROAD PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person not acting within the line of duty, not
having any proper business or not being on any proper mission requiring said
person's presence there, to loiter anywhere on a railroad yard or upon other
railroad premises. (2007 Code § 19-4)
8-5-4: BLOCKING OF STREETS BY TRAINS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any train to block any street
intersection within the corporate boundaries of the City, at any time, for more
than ten (10) minutes; provided, that this shall not apply to cars in motion,
other than those engaged in switching, or if the train is stopped for an
emergency condition, including an accident, derailment, critical mechanical
failure, track or bridge washout, storm, flood or other emergency situation.
   B.   A one-time exception of up to, but not exceeding, ten (10) additional
minutes shall be authorized under the following conditions:
      1.   When a train and its crew, operating under the rules of the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA), are unable to complete a switching maneuver
while setting out or picking up railcars within the ten (10) minutes as set
forth in subsection A.;
      2.   When a train is stopped to allow the passage of a second train and
the stopped train has exhausted the ten (10) minutes as set forth in subsection
A., or if the arrival of the second train is imminent and separation and
coupling of the stopped train would result in further unnecessary blocking of
motor vehicle or pedestrian traffic; and
      3.   When a train is stopped for a red train signal.
   C.   Additionally, when a train is cut or separated to prevent blocking of
motor vehicle traffic at a public crossing, and a working charging station
exists, the time required for recoupling a train and performing air tests as
required by the FRA shall not be considered a violation of this section.
   D.   Every railroad shall be operated in such a manner as to minimize
obstruction of emergency vehicles at public highway grade crossings.
   E.   Any person or corporation that violates a provision of this section
shall be subject to a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
violation. Seventy five percent (75%) of the collected fine shall be deposited
to the credit of the general fund of the City of Waurika and the remaining
twenty five percent (25%) shall be credited to the Corporation Commission
Revolving Fund. A copy of the citation, along with any information regarding
train identification, shall be sent to the Corporation Commission for
enforcement of the penalty at a hearing before an administrative law judge of
the Commission. (amd. Ord. 02102020-01, 2-10-2020)
8-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 19-100)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Department And Superintendent Of Public Works
9-1-2: Duties Of Department
9-1-3: Divisions Within Department
9-1-1: DEPARTMENT AND SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
There shall be a Department of Public Works, the head of which is the
Superintendent of Public Works, who shall be appointed by the City Manager, and
removable by the Manager; provided, that during the absence, disability, or
suspension of the Superintendent of Public Works, the City Manager shall act as
such or appoint an acting Director; and provided, that during a vacancy in the
Office of Superintendent, the City Manager shall be Director of Public Works
until and unless he appoints a Director. The Public Works Superintendent is an
officer of the City, and has supervision and control of the Department of
Public Works. (2007 Code § 1-46)
9-1-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The Public Works Department shall have the following duties insofar as the City
performs these functions by its own forces (and not by contract):
   A.   To construct, improve, maintain, and clean streets (including alleys
and other public ways), bridges, and sidewalks; to install and maintain street
lights, traffic- control signs, markings, signals, and devices; to erect and
maintain street name signs; and to supervise the use of streets by privately
owned utilities;
   B.   To maintain and operate the City water system;
   C.   To construct, improve, maintain, and operate storm sewers;
   D.   To maintain all buildings and grounds used by the City;
   E.   To maintain and operate all parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, and
other recreational facilities and programs operated by the City;
   F.   To collect and dispose of garbage and other refuse whenever the City
provides this service by its own forces (rather than by contract);
   G.   To maintain City owned motor equipment; and
   H.   To perform such other functions relating to the maintenance, repair,
improvement, and operation of the physical facilities owned or used by the City
government as the City Manager may prescribe consistent with law and ordinance.
(2007 Code § 1-46)
9-1-3: DIVISIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT:
There shall be such divisions within the Public Works Department as the City
Manager or the City Commission may create, with such appropriate titles as
Street Division, Water Division, Park Division, Sanitation Division, and/or
others, and with such powers and duties of the department as may be assigned to
the respective divisions. The head of a division may have an appropriate title
such as Chief, Superintendent, etc 1 . (2007 Code § 1-46)
 
Notes
1 1. See also City Charter
  section 26.
CHAPTER 2
UTILITY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Municipal Utility Systems
9-2-2: Use Of Utility Systems
9-2-3: Operation Of Utility Systems
9-2-4: Waurika Public Works Authority
9-2-5: Turning On Utilities
9-2-6: Utility Payment Policy
9-2-7: Extending Service; Payment Of Bills; Cutoffs
9-2-8: Keeping Service Pipes In Good Repair
9-2-9: Utility Interruptions; City Not Responsible
9-2-10: Inspection Of Private Premises; Right Of Entry
9-2-11: Prohibited Acts
9-2-12: Penalty
9-2-1: MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS:
   A.   The City provides water, sewer and solid waste services for the
residents of the City.
   B.   Water and sewer services are operated through the Waurika Public Works
Authority, a Municipal Trust of which the City is the beneficiary; said trust
shall have control over the operation, maintenance and administration of said
systems and services. Solid waste collection and disposal is the responsibility
of the City. (2007 Code § 16-1)
9-2-2: USE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS:
Every residential inhabitant within the corporate limits of the City, and every
commercial or business entity or enterprise who may practically do so shall
secure all of its potable water requirements from the Water System owned by the
City and leased to the Waurika Public Works Authority; connect to the Sanitary
Sewer System owned by the City and leased to said authority, and not otherwise
dispose of sewage, unless it is impossible or not feasible to do so; and
utilize the Municipal Solid Waste Collection and Disposal System, unless said
service is not offered. (2007 Code § 16-2)
9-2-3: OPERATION OF UTILITY SYSTEMS:
   A.   The operations of the Municipal Water and Sewer Systems shall be the
responsibility of the Waurika Public Works Authority; said authority shall have
the power to establish fees, rates, deposits, charges and such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the efficient operation of these systems.
   B.   The operators of the Municipal Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
System shall be the City Commission; said board shall have the authority to
establish fees, charges and operational procedures and regulations as may be
necessary for efficient operation of the system, and to ensure continued
operation of the Waurika Authority, or any other trust of which the City is a
member, participant or beneficiary.
   C.   Administrative processes for all systems may be combined for more
efficient operation, at the discretion of the City Commission and the Waurika
Public Works Authority Board.
   D.   Ordinances relating to these Municipal Utility Systems shall be
applicable, whenever possible, to all Municipal Utility Systems, including
those operated by the Public Works Authority. (2007 Code § 16-3)
9-2-4: WAURIKA PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Trust Indenture by and between George A. Brown, as Trustor, and
George A. Brown, A.C. O'Neal and George S. Anderson as Trustees, dated as of
November 17, 1969, creating the Waurika Public Works Authority, a copy of which
is on file in the Office of the City Clerk, wherein the City is declared to be
the beneficiary of said trust, be and the same is hereby approved and the City
accepts said trust as the beneficiary thereof.
   B.   The resolution of the Trustees of the Waurika Public Works Authority
enacted on August 31, 1970, which related to charges for water when delivered
through meters and sewer service and setting out rules and regulations for
efficient operation and control of the water system and sewer system, which
resolution, by reference, is made a part of this chapter as if herein set out
in full, is hereby approved.
   C.   The provisions of the Bond Indenture by and between the Trustees of the
Waurika Public Works Authority and the First National Bank & Trust Company of
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, dated as of August 1, 1970, an executed copy of which
is on file with the City Clerk, and which is by this reference hereby made a
part of this chapter, are hereby approved and accepted by the City; and the
City agrees that the trust estate therein created by said authority is subject
to and bound by the provisions of said bond in debenture and the City hereby
approved the indebtedness and obligations created thereby. (2007 Code § 16-4)
9-2-5: TURNING ON UTILITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn a utility on to any
premises from any Municipal Utility System without written permission of the
City Clerk. Utilities shall not be turned on until any and all deposits and
charges have been paid. The City Clerk shall see that the utility is turned on
when all requirements for service have been complied with.
   B.   When a utility has been turned off by City personnel, it shall not be
turned on again without written permission of the City Clerk.
   C.   The owner or tenant shall be responsible for any reconnection and/or
water usage flowing through to this location if the water meter has previously
been shut off by the city.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or tenant of a property to fail or
neglect to notify the City of Waurika within twenty-four (24) hours of a
reconnection of a water meter, leading to his/her property that occurs after
the meter has been properly shut off by the Waurika Public Works Authority, and
that has not been turned on with the written permission of the City Clerk.
(2007 Code § 16-180; amd. Ord. 02162023-02, 2-16-2023)
9-2-6: UTILITY PAYMENT POLICY:
   A.   The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all customers are treated
equally and fairly concerning payment of their monthly water, sewer and/or
garbage bills.
   B.   These bills will be mailed on the last working day of the month of the
meter reading and are considered past due on the tenth of the following month.
   C.   Cutoff notices will be sent out after late charges are processed. Late
charges are processed on the first working day following the tenth. These
notices will be sent to all customers with unpaid balances. Customers will be
given ten (10) calendar days from the date of the cutoff day. Services will not
be cut off on a day immediately preceding a weekend or legal holiday when City
Hall will be closed.
   D.   Additional rules, regulations, or penalty fees shall be set by
resolution, a copy to be posted in the back of this Code, marked Utility
Policy. (2007 Code § 16-186)
   E.   If a customer cannot pay his bill before the cutoff day, he may consult
with the Billing Clerk concerning making arrangements for payment. These
arrangements must be made before cutoff day. To qualify for special
arrangements, a customer must have fulfilled all prior arrangements as stated
on the agreement forms. If a customer qualifies, arrangements for payment may
be made by signing either a payment extension form or a deferred payment plan
form. (Copies of these forms shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk.)
If the customer does not fulfill his obligation, he will not be eligible for
further agreements. If agreements are not fulfilled on the date stated, service
will be disconnected without further notice and no further agreements will be
allowed for extension of payment or deferred payments. (2007 Code § 16-186;
amd. 2019 Code)
   F.   Services will be disconnected and reconnected by Water Department
personnel only. The personnel in this department will begin with their list by
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to give the customers sufficient time to pay what is
owed and be reconnected before the end of the day. Customers who come in after
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. may have to wait until the following workday to be
reconnected.
   G.   Tags will be posted at the service address notifying the customer of
why the service was disconnected and what it will take to resume service. If
payment is not received within five (5) days after being disconnected, a final
bill will be sent and the meter deposit will be applied to the bill. If the
customer comes in to reinstate service after a final bill is sent, the amount
of the final bill plus a new meter deposit must be paid in full before service
will be reinstated. (2007 Code § 16-186)
9-2-7: EXTENDING SERVICE; PAYMENT OF BILLS; CUTOFFS:
   A.   A person owing delinquent Municipal utility bills or other charges in
connection with any Municipal Utility System shall not be extended additional
services until such bills and charges have been paid.
   B.   Utilities may be cut off and service discontinued for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to any Municipal
Utility or Service System, or violation of any ordinance provision or any
provision of a code adopted by reference, relating to water and sanitary
plumbing or electrical installations, as the case may be; or
      2.   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge made in
connection with the Municipal Utility System by the time specified by
ordinance.
   C.   A particular service may be cut off for any act or omission in regard
to the abuse of another Municipal System or service, which jeopardizes the
public health or safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the
rights of others.
   D.   The City reserves the right to cut off or reduce any utility or service
to any customer when necessary to conserve water, to protect life or property,
or to repair or improve the Municipal Utility System.
   E.   Any service turned off for violation of any rules, requirements, or
non-payment and upon later inspection shows the meter has been turned on, or
additional usage on the meter, shall, in the discretion of the City, cause the
meter to be removed, and service will not be restored to any person except upon
payment of all other charges and rents set at the bulk rate billed to the
customer's utility bill, plus a meter removal fee in the amount provided in the
city fee schedule.
   F.   Any customer may appeal a "shut off notice" within five days of receipt
of notice to the city manager. (2007 Code § 16-181; amd. Ord. 02162023-02, 2-
16-2023)
9-2-8: KEEPING SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR:
All customers using any Municipal Utilities Systems shall keep their service
pipes and other apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions. (2007 Code §
16-182)
9-2-9: UTILITY INTERRUPTIONS; CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE:
The City shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service. (2007 Code § 16-183)
9-2-10: INSPECTION OF PRIVATE PREMISES; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Personnel in the service of the City may enter any private premises served by
Municipal utilities at any reasonable time, and inspect the pipes, fixtures
and/or wiring on the premises. (2007 Code § 16-184)
9-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Interference With Fire Hydrants:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized, to
open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with, any fire hydrant belonging to the City.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct
access to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or
other thing.
   B.   Unlawful Service Connection/Theft Of Services:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of
pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor
carrying gas, water, electricity, or cablevision and belonging to a public
utility (whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable
that person or any other person to consume or use the gas, water, electricity
or cablevision without its passing through the meter or in any other way so as
to evade payment therefor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly take, receive, use,
or convert, to such person's own use, or the use of another, any electricity,
water, or natural gas which has not been measured, or any telephone or cable
television service which has not been authorized.
   C.   Damage Of Utility System: It shall also be unlawful for any person to
damage, molest, tamper with, obstruct or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or
other part of any public utility, including telegraph, telephone and
cablevision systems. (Ord. 020916-1, 2-9-2016)
9-2-12: PENALTY:
Every person who violates any provision of this title, or of any ordinance,
code or standard adopted by this title, or maintains or permits to continue any
situation defined by this title as unlawful, shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the limits
established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 16-200)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: Mandatory Use Of Water System
9-3-2: Water Rates, Fees And Charges
9-3-3: Water Well Permits
9-3-4: Tampering With Or Injuring Water System
9-3-5: Water Shortage; Emergencies; Proclamation
9-3-6: Lead Water Service Line Replacement
9-3-1: MANDATORY USE OF WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection To City Water Line Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, education,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the City, and abutting on any
street, alley or right- of-way in which there is now located, or may in the
future be located, a City water line, are hereby required, at their expense, to
connect their facility with the proper City water line (in accordance with all
City requirements) and pay all City fees and use charges therefor, within one
hundred twenty (120) days after the date of official City notice to do so;
provided, that the City water line is within three hundred feet (300') of the
property line.
   B.   Requirements For Establishing Private Water Well: It shall be
hereinafter unlawful for any person to maintain or establish a private water
well to serve a facility, unless said person shall first be connected to the
City Water System and pay the monthly water fees and charges; provided, that
said person also meets all the requirements for mandatory hookup established in
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Application For Connection To City Water Line: No unauthorized person
shall make any connections with any City water line without first having made
application therefor to the City Clerk, and without first having paid the
established fee.
   D.   When Use Of Private Water Well Allowed: Where a City water line does
not lie within three hundred feet (300') of the property line, or is not
scheduled to be placed within three hundred feet (300') of the property line in
the near future (1 to 5 years), an individual may utilize or establish a
private water well without connection to the City Water System and therefore,
without payment of the City Water System fees and charges.
   E.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to persons
currently being served directly by an existing Rural Water District. (2007 Code
§ 16-20)
9-3-2: WATER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates Established By Resolution: The rates for the water service
provided by the Waurika Public Works Authority (except as this schedule may be
affected or altered by the User Charge System in this title) shall be as
established by resolution.
   B.   Deposits Established By Resolution: Deposits for water service shall
also be established by resolution. (2007 Code § 16-22)
9-3-3: WATER WELL PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Conditions: In order to protect the City's water
supply and the financial security of the City Water Supply System, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have or drill a new water well
within the corporate limits of the City without first having obtained a permit
to do so from the Office of the City Clerk. Said permit shall be issued, for a
fee to be established by motion of the City Commission, upon written agreement
by the applicant to the following conditions:
      1.   That there be no resale of water obtained from any well;
      2.   Water from any well drilled in the City shall be for use only by the
individual property owner drilling said water well;
      3.   No cross-connections shall be allowed to any component of the City
Water System, including water lines, on private property, which are connected
to the City Water System; and
      4.   Wells shall meet all local, County and Oklahoma State Department of
Health requirements.
   B.   Commercial Water Use Not Permitted: No permits shall be issued for any
type of commercial use or commercial water use. (2007 Code § 16-23)
9-3-4: TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING WATER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way tamper
with, any portion of the City Water System, or to turn the water off or on from
any main at any time or place, unless said person is duly authorized so to do
by the Waurika Public Works Authority. (2007 Code § 16-21)
9-3-5: WATER SHORTAGE; EMERGENCIES; PROCLAMATION:
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity, or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor or the City Commission, by majority vote
thereof at any regular, special or emergency meeting, are hereby authorized to
restrict or prohibit the use of water from the City Water System.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor or the City Commission (by
majority vote thereof at any regular, special or emergency meeting) reasonably
determine that the City Water System is unable, or will, within sixty (60)
days, become unable, to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the
users thereof, including adequate fire protection.
   C.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor or the
City Commission shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting
out with particularity an order restricting use of water from the City System.
Such an order may: 1) restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or
week or according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and 2) prohibit
usages not essential to public health and safety. The order may be revised from
time to time as the Mayor or the City Commission deems necessary.
   D.   The proclamation required by subsection C of this section shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four
(24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy
of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the City. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this subsection is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   E.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including, but not limited to, electronic means or by mail. The emergency shall
be in full force and effect upon such notice; provided, that if any such means
is other than that required in subsection D of this section, the proclamation
shall be republished in accordance thereof within twenty four (24) hours of the
first notice.
   F.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
Mayor or the City Commission shall cause to be published a proclamation that
the emergency has ended, whichever is shorter, unless said City Commission, by
resolution approved by a majority of all its members, extends the proclamation.
   G.   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor or the City
Commission shall have the right to present the matter to the next regular or
special meeting of the City Commission or to any emergency session called to
discuss the water emergency. The City Commission may exempt such aggrieved
person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order, upon a
showing that compliance creates an immediate threat to the person's health or
safety. The ruling of the City Commission, by a majority vote of all its
members, shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked
by action of the City Commission, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation. (2007 Code § 16-24)
9-3-6: LEAD WATER SERVICE LINE REPLACEMENT:
   A.   Intent and purpose. The Board of Commissioners of the city finds that
it is in the public interest to establish a comprehensive program for the
removal and replacement of lead pipe water service lines in use within both the
commercial businesses and in private residences
   B.   Identification of Lead Service Lines.
      1.   In the event of a service line break, remodeling, construction, or
upon notice from the City of Waurika Public Works Authority, any person or
entity who owns, manages or otherwise exercises control over a property
connected to the Waurika Utilities water distribution system shall allow the
City of Waurika Utilities or its designee to inspect the customer side service
line to determine the material of construction.
      2.   Right of entry. Upon presentation of credentials, representatives of
the utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
utility for inspection of service line.
      3.   The City of Waurika Public Works Authority shall provide written
notice to any person or entity who owns, manages, and or otherwise exercises
control over a property connected to the City of Waurika Utilities water
distribution system that has been inspected and determined to be constructed of
lead.
   C.   Replacement of Lead service Lines.
      1.   Owner to replace lead service lines. The owner shall, at the owner's
expense, replace the lead service line with Poly line or another appropriate
material allowed under current State plumbing codes. In all cases, the city
shall supply an appropriate connection point as part of its work. The owner may
elect to contract with State of Oklahoma licensed plumbing contractor to
complete the repair. All work needed to accomplish tle repair shall be done at
the expense of the owner. Within sixty (60) days of the giving of notice of
deficiency under subsection (2)(a) of this Section, proof of arrangements for
repair shall be provided to the City of Waurika Department of Public Works or
its designee and within sixty (60) days of the giving of notice the repairs
shall be completed.
   2.   Water system reconstruction. Inspection required. The City of Waurika
Department of Public Works or its designee shall inspect all private
connections to the public water mains at the time that the utility system is to
be reconstructed:
         a.   Any existing private lead water lateral shall be considered
illegal.
         b.   Prior to the actual reconsffuction of the water main and lateral
system, each property owner shall be given written notice of the project Such
notice shall be made not less than sixty (60) days prior to commencement of the
actual work.
         c.   As the reconstruction progresses, the City of Waurika Department
of Public Works or its designee shall inspect each private water lateral
connection for the presence of Iead or, in the event inspection had been made
previously, determine the condition of the private water connection from
inspection records.
         d.   In the event that the private water Iateral does not contain
lead, the city shall reconnect the same to the utility system at an appropriate
point near the right-of-way line.
         e.   In the event that the private water lateral is found to contain
lead, the utility water superintendent or his designee shall immediately notify
the owner in writing of that fact.
      3.   Pursuant to Section
9-3-6 the owner shall, at the owner's expense, replace the lead service line
with an appropriate material allowed under current State plumbing codes. In all
cases, the city shall supply an appropriate connection point as part of its
work. The owner may elect to contract with licensed contractor to complete the
repair. AII work needed to accomplish the repair shall be done at the expense
of the owner. Within 60 days of the giving of notice of deficiency under
subsection (2)(a) of this section, proof of arrangements for repair shall be
provided to the City of Waurika Department of Public Works or its designee and
within sixty (60) days of the giving of notice the repairs shall be completed.
   D.   Authority to discontinue senrice. As an alternative to any other
methods provided for obtaining compliance with the requirements of this Code
regarding replacement of illegal private water laterals, the utility may, no
sooner than sixty (60) days after the giving of notice as provided in
subsection (2)(a) of this section, discontinue water service to such property
served by illegal private water lateral after reasonable notice and an
opporhrnity for hearing before tle Administrative Body as designated in title
V. (Ord. 09132021-07, 9-13-2021)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVOIR WATER DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Creation Of Reservoir Water District
9-4-2: Applicable Regulations Extended To Water District
9-4-3: Additional Changes And/Or Amendments Authorized
9-4-4: Pollution Of Water Supply Unlawful
9-4-5: Action For Damages
9-4-1: CREATION OF RESERVOIR WATER DISTRICT:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 37-110, there is hereby established
and designated, by metes and bounds, a Water District for the sanitary
protection of the water supply of the City. The district shall be known as the
Waurika Reservoir Water District, and shall embrace all the lands in the
Counties of Jefferson, Stephens, Grady, Comanche and Cotton, State of Oklahoma,
within the following metes and bounds:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section
One (1), Township Four South (T-4-S), Range Nine West (R-9-W); thence East 4
miles; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North 3.5 miles;
Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 1 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 2
miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 7 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence
North 1.5 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5
mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence
East .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile;
Thence East 1 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North 1.5
miles; Thence East to a point at the Southeast corner of the Southeast Quarter
(SE 1/4) of Section Twenty-Five (25), Township One North (T-1-N), Range Eight
West (R-8-W); Thence North 1 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile;
Thence East 1 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North 1.5
miles; Thence East .5 mile; Thence North 1.5 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence
North 3 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 1.5 miles; Thence East .5
mile; Thence North 1 mile; Thence East 1 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence
East .5 mile; Thence North 2 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 1 mile;
Thence West .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West 1 mile; Thence North 1.5
miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North 1 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence
North .5 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West 1 mile;
Thence North .5 mile; Thence West 1 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West .5
mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence West 3 miles; Thence South .5 mile; Thence
West 1 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West 1 mile; Thence North 1 mile;
Thence West 1.5 miles; Thence North 1 mile; Thence West 2.5 miles; Thence North
.5 mile; Thence West 1.5 miles; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West .5 mile;
Thence North .5 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence West .5
mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence South 1 mile; Thence
West .5 mile; Thence North .5 mile; Thence West 1.5 miles; Thence South .5
mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence South 2 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence
South 1 mile; Thence West .5 mile; Thence South 3 miles; Thence East .5 mile;
Thence south 2 miles; Thence East 1 mile; Thence South 1.5 miles; Thence West
.5 mile; Thence South 1.5 miles; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile;
Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South
1.5 miles; Thence West .5 mile; Thence South 5.5 miles; Thence West .5 mile;
Thence South 1 mile; Thence East to a point at the Northeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Five (5), Township One South (T-1-S),
Range Ten West (R-10-W); Thence South 2 miles; Thence East .5 mile; Thence
South .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 miles; Thence East 1 mile;
Thence South 1 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South 1 mile; Thence East .5
mile; Thence South 5.5 miles; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South 3.5 miles;
Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5
mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence East 1.5 miles; Thence
South .5 mile; Thence East 1.5 miles; Thence South 1.5 miles; Thence East .5
mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence East .5 mile; Thence South .5 mile; Thence
East 1 mile; Thence South .5 mile, to the point of beginning.
(2007 Code § 16-40)
9-4-2: APPLICABLE REGULATIONS EXTENDED TO WATER DISTRICT:
   A.   Appropriate provisions of the police power of the City are hereby
extended over all lands embraced within the Water District described in section
9-4-1 of this chapter, and it is hereby declared that the jurisdiction of the
City, in the fullest degree comfortable to law, extends over, and applies to,
the entire Water District (described in section
9-4-1 of this chapter), for the protection of the health of the City's
residents and the purity of the City's water supply.
   B.   All rules and regulations of the City, County and State Health
Departments and authorities now in force, are hereby extended over, applied to
and shall have full force and effect within, the Water District described in
section
9-4-1 of this chapter. All such rules and regulations that may be lawfully made
in the future shall extend over, and have the same effect within the Water
District, as within the corporate boundaries of the City. (2007 Code § 16-41)
9-4-3: ADDITIONAL CHANGES AND/OR AMENDMENTS AUTHORIZED:
The City Commission may promulgate such additional rules and regulations as may
be deemed advisable, and may (by ordinance) extend, modify or change the metes
and bounds description of the Water District described in section
9-4-1 of this chapter, so as to embrace any additional lands directly or
indirectly flowing or shedding into the Water Reservoir Basin, or so as to make
any necessary corrections because of errors in the metes and bounds
description. (2007 Code § 16-42)
9-4-4: POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY UNLAWFUL:
No person, firm, partnership or corporation or any of the partners, officers,
managers or employees thereof shall pollute, or permit the pollution of, the
water supply, or any stream, pond, spring, lake or other reservoir fit to be
used and used as a water supply. Pollution by salt water or by crude oil or the
bottom settlings thereof, or by sulphur water, or any other mineral water, or
by the refuse of the products of any well or mine, by which the water supply is
rendered unfit for use as a water supply for Municipal purposes, shall be
deemed unlawful pollution for the purposes of this section. (2007 Code § 16-43)
9-4-5: ACTION FOR DAMAGES:
The City shall have the right of action for damages resulting from pollution of
its water supply, as provided in section
9-4-4 of this chapter, and the measure of damages shall be the amount which
will compensate for the detriment caused thereby, whether it could have been
anticipated or not. Where such pollution is continued for a period of six (6)
months or more, the injury shall be regarded as permanent. (2007 Code § 16-44)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-5-1: Use Of Municipal Sewer System
9-5-2: Mandatory Sewer Connections
9-5-3: Private Sewage Disposal Facilities
9-5-4: Sewer Rates And Fees
9-5-1: USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any connection
to the Municipal Sewer System without first complying with all applicable
provisions of this Code and all requirements of the Waurika Public Works
Authority. (2007 Code § 16-60)
9-5-2: MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
corporate limits of the City, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way
in which there is located a public sanitary sewer of the City, are hereby
required, at their own expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to have such facilities connected directly with the proper public sewer
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of official City notice to
do so; provided, that such public sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of
the property line.
   B.   Said notice shall be served by any designated agent of the City by
delivering a true and correct copy to the property owner, or leaving the same
at said person's usual place of residence with a member of the family over the
age of fifteen (15) years, or if such owner cannot be found, by posting a copy
of such notice at the front entrance of the building involved.
   C.   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the terms
of this section after having been notified so to do, as provided herein, shall
be guilty of an offense. In the event of a continuous violation of this section
by any property owner, the City may discontinue the furnishing of water to such
property owner, until such time as a proper sewer connection has been made.
(2007 Code § 16-61)
9-5-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided in this Code, it shall be unlawful for
any person to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of sewage,
within the corporate limits of the City.
   B.   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer line is not required
under the provisions of section
9-5-2 of this chapter, a private septic tank facility for sewage disposal may
be constructed and maintained, provided it is constructed and maintained under
the rules and regulations of the local and County Health Officer, and in
compliance with the recommendations and requirements of the Oklahoma State
Department of Health. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   The owners of private septic tanks shall operate and maintain the same
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City, and no statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the local, County or State Health Officers.
   D.   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a septic tank, a direct connection shall be made to such public sewer in
compliance with section
9-5-2 of this chapter, and the septic tank shall immediately be abandoned and
filled with suitable material. (2007 Code § 16-62)
9-5-4: SEWER RATES AND FEES:
   A.   The basic charge for sewer service provided by the Waurika Public Works
Authority shall be as established by resolution.
   B.   A sewer tap rate shall be as established by resolution. (2007 Code §
16-63; amd. Ord. 08092021-04, 8-9-2021)
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL WASTES
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Definitions
9-5A-2: New Sewers And Connections
9-5A-3: Rates And Charges; Records; Billing
9-5A-4: Industrial Users; Additional Payments
9-5A-5: Prohibited Discharges
9-5A-6: Discharge Of Certain Substances
9-5A-7: Discharge Requirements
9-5A-8: Violations
9-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOD: "Biological oxygen demand", as that term is employed by sanitary sewer
engineers, and shall be determined by a five (5) day test of composite sampling
at a temperature of twenty degrees centigrade (20°C).
CITY: The City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
IC: A charge in terms of dollars that is assessed or taxed against industries
using or connected to the sewer system.
SS: Suspended solids of industrial waste in a composite sampling.
SEWER SYSTEM: The sanitary sewer system that is operated by the City or by any
trust or entity for the City.
V: The volume of flow of industrial waste in units of one thousand (1,000)
gallons. (2007 Code § 16-150)
9-5A-2: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of all building sewers into the public sewer lines shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes adopted by, and
the other applicable rules and regulations of, the City.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements and regulations of the Oklahoma State
Department of Health. (2007 Code § 16-141)
9-5A-3: RATES AND CHARGES; RECORDS; BILLING:
   A.   User Charge Schedule:
      1.   As the BOD, suspended solids, and other pollutant concentrations
discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be
charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
CU = Cb + Ct/Vt (Vu)
      2.   Symbols and definitions shall be as follows:
CU = A user's charge per unit of time.
Cb = A user's base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
administration, etc.) per unit of time.
Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time.
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
extraneous flows).
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time. (2007 Code § 16-142)
   B.   Excessive Strength Charges:
      1.   For any user, when the BOD exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (*250 mg/L), the suspended solids exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (*250 mg/L), or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range
of concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge
shall be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be calculated by the
following formula:
*Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
         Cs = (Bc(B)+Sc(S)+Pc(P))Vu
      2.   Symbols and definitions shall be as follows:
         Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
         Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD).
         B = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level.
         Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS).
         S = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level.
         Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant.
         P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level.
         Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time. (2007 Code §
16-143)
   C.   Toxic Pollutants Charges: Each user that discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge of the treatment works shall pay for such increased costs. (2007 Code §
16-145)
   D.   Charges For Extraneous Flows: The costs of operation and maintenance
for all flows not directly attributable to users (such as infiltration/flow)
shall be distributed among users on the same basis as operation and maintenance
charges. (2007 Code § 16-147)
   E.   Review And Revision: The user charge schedule shall be reviewed not
less than every two (2) years regarding the wastewater contribution of users
and user classes, the total costs of the operation and maintenance of the
treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The charges for users or
user classes shall be revised to accomplish the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation (including replacement) of
the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and
the rates shall be adjusted accordingly. (2007 Code § 16-144)
   F.   Notification Of Charges: Each user shall be notified at least annually,
in conjunction with the regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of
the user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services. Costs
shall be broken down to show the operation and maintenance costs attributable
to that user. (2007 Code § 16-146)
   G.   Records: A record keeping system shall be established and maintained by
the City Clerk to document compliance with Federal regulations pertaining to
the user charge schedule. (2007 Code § 16-148)
   H.   Billing: Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due
twenty (20) days after the date of billing. Users on metered water services
will be billed on the same notice as water charges and will be designated as a
separate entry. Users of the wastewater system not on metered water service
will be billed monthly on an individual notice for wastewater service at the
rate established by the City Commission. Users with delinquent accounts of
twenty (20) days will be notified in writing by the Utility Superintendent that
water and/or wastewater services will be terminated unless the account is paid
in full. (2007 Code § 16-149)
9-5A-4: INDUSTRIAL USERS; ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS:
   A.   Industrial User Charge: Each industrial user connected to, or using,
the sewer system mentioned in this article shall pay to the City or to the
entity operating the said sewer system, in addition to other charges properly
made, a monthly charge, designated as IC, which is in terms of dollars and
shall be computed by the following formula:
IC = 0.07V + 0.04(BOD) + 0.02(SS).
(2007 Code § 16-151)
   B.   Industrial User Requirements: In addition to the user charge in
subsection A of this section, each industrial user which contributed thirty
percent (30%) or more of the total volume of the Municipally treated wastes
shall make substantial prepayment for capital investments required to treat the
wastes. The amount of such payment to be required from such industrial user
shall be determined by the Board of City Commissioners at a hearing on the
matter, of which hearing the industrial user shall have been given at least
five (5) days' written notice. The industrial user shall have the right to be
present at the hearing and to be represented by counsel and to present evidence
pertaining to the matter that is to be determined. (2007 Code § 16-152)
9-5A-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person may discharge to a public sewer any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   B.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer shall be prohibited.
   C.   1. It is the intention of the City to regulate present and future
industrial wastewater, which might be discharged by a user of the facilities.
Wastewater introduced into the facilities shall contain no toxins or other
pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety or the
physical integrity of the treatment works, or cause violation of effluent or
water quality limitations, or preclude the use of the most cost effective
wastewater treatment and sludge disposal system. (2007 Code § 16-140)
      2.   To that end, the City herein adopts and incorporates the applicable
Federal regulations including the Clean Water Act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq.;
General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 CFR section 403 et seq.; Solid Waste
Disposal Act, 42 USC section 6901 et seq.; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act and any other applicable Federal Environment Protection
Agency regulations and any Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality
regulations that may be more stringent than the Federal requirements.
      3.   State requirements and limitations shall apply in any case where
they are more stringent than Federal requirements and limitations or those in
this article.
      4.   Federal requirements and limitations shall apply in any case where
they are more stringent than State requirements and limitations or those in
this article. (2007 Code § 16-140; amd. 2019 Code)
9-5A-6: DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN SUBSTANCES:
No user of the Municipal sewer system shall discharge waste into such sewer
system containing the following named substances in greater quantities or
amounts measured in parts per million (ppm) than the ppm hereinafter shown
opposite the name of each of such substance:
 ppm
                ppm
Antimony        0.01
Arsenic         0.05
Barium          5.00
Beryllium       0.01
Bismuth         0.05
Boron           1.00
Cadmium         0.02
Chromium (Hexa) 0.05
Chromium (Tri)  5.00
Cobalt          1.00
Copper          1.00
Iron            0.30
Lead            0.10
Manganese       1.00
Mercury         0.005
Molybdenum      1.00
Nickel          1.00
Phenola         0.005
Rhenium         0.02
Selenium        0.02
Silver          0.10
Strontium       0.00
Tellurium       0.00
Til             0.10
Uranylion       5.00
Zinc            5.00
 
(2007 Code § 16-153)
9-5A-7: DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS:
Users of the sewer system shall limit the discharge of industrial waste into
such system to levels that will not adversely affect the operation of the
system or the waste treatment facilities and will meet current and future State
water quality standards applicable to the City. To comply with this provision,
the City may require the user to pretreat the industrial waste before
discharging it into the sewer system. (2007 Code § 16-154)
9-5A-8: VIOLATIONS:
As to any industrial user violating the provisions of this article, the City or
the entity operating the sewer system for the City may disconnect the user's
facility or plant from the sewer system. Alternatively, the City or such entity
may apply to the proper court of the State of Oklahoma for an injunction to
prohibit such violation. (2007 Code § 16-155)
CHAPTER 6
SOLID WASTE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-6-1: Collection And Disposal Declared Municipal Function
9-6-2: Purpose
9-6-3: Definitions
9-6-4: Contractors
9-6-5: Fees
9-6-6: Work Done By City Personnel
9-6-7: Accumulation A Nuisance; Containers
9-6-8: Burning Of Solid Waste
9-6-9: Removal Of Manure, Fertilizer
9-6-10: Exceptions
9-6-1: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DECLARED MUNICIPAL FUNCTION:
The collection and disposal of garbage, trash and refuse and other solid waste
is hereby declared to be a Municipal function of the City as a protection of
the public health; the police powers of the City shall be invoked when
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the City may
collect and dispose of refuse as it deems necessary; provided, that such
disposal shall be an approved method of incineration (not open burning) or by
landfill and daily cover. (2007 Code § 16-80)
9-6-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter and it is hereby declared to be the policy of
the City, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma Solid Waste Management Act
1 , as amended, to regulate the collection and disposal of solid wastes in a
manner that will protect the public health and welfare, prevent air and water
pollution, prevent the spread of disease and the creation of nuisances,
conserve the natural resources, and enhance and preserve the beauty and quality
of the community's environment. (2007 Code § 16-81)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-10-101 et seq.
9-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
REFUSE: Tree trimmings, junked building and roofing materials, manufacturing
waste, rocks, dirt and other waste material not defined as "solid waste" or
"trash".
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semi-solid
form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semi-solid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes (including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes).
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and burying solid wastes at or in a site approved by
the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
TRASH: Paper, rags, containers or paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings and
all other household waste, but not tree trimmings, building and manufacturing
waste, sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater and other liquid refuse properly
disposable through the sanitary sewers of the City. (2007 Code § 16-82)
9-6-4: CONTRACTORS:
Any person contracting with the City for the removal and disposal of garbage
and other refuse shall:
   A.   Collection And Disposal Of Garbage: Visit each and every premises in
the City periodically, and as often as the City Commission may provide, and
haul away all garbage, trash, refuse, small dead animals, rubbish and waste
material to the dumping ground provided for by the City. He shall there burn,
or bury to a sufficient depth, the carcasses of dead animals, and shall burn
all dry waste and rubbish, keeping the dumping ground in as orderly condition
as possible;
   B.   Business Premises: Business premises in the City shall be visited by
such contractor for the collection of garbage and waste as often as may be
required by the City Commission, having regard for the fact that collections
from such premises may be required more often than from residential premises;
the commission may require more frequent garbage collections from certain
classes of businesses than from business premises in general, recognizing that
some classes of businesses accumulate garbage and waste material faster, and of
a kind to more quickly become a nuisance;
   C.   Cleaning Waste From Streets And Public Places: Clean rubbish and waste
material from the streets, alleys and other public places in the City, haul the
same to the City dumping grounds, and there dispose of same in a proper manner,
periodically as may be required by the Board;
   D.   Vehicles Used For Hauling; Prevent Leakage: Provide for the hauling of
garbage and waste material to the dumping ground in trucks or vehicles with
beds, boxes or containers sufficiently tight to prevent spillage in hauling,
with containers sufficiently tight to prevent leakage of wet garbage, and
covered when necessary to prevent waste from blowing from the vehicle; and
   E.   City Authority To Terminate Contract: Conduct, in general, the work of
collecting and disposing of garbage and all other waste material in a manner
satisfactory to the City Commission. Whenever it deems it advisable, the City
Commission may terminate at once any contract it has with any person for
garbage collection and disposal, without assigning any reason therefor. (2007
Code § 16-87)
9-6-5: FEES:
   A.   Monthly Charges: To provide a fund to pay the expense of such garbage
collection and disposal, there is hereby levied for the City a monthly charge
or fee for garbage removal and disposition. Such charge or fee is levied
against the occupant of each and every residential premises and each and every
business premises in the City, and shall be in such sum or sums as the City
Commission may fix from time to time, by resolution. Different rates or charges
may be made against different classes of businesses, having regard for the fact
that garbage collections may be required more often from certain classes of
businesses. All such fees and charges shall be paid to the City Clerk, and by
him paid over to the City Treasurer, to be held in a separate fund for paying
the expenses of garbage collection.
   B.   Charges Added To Water Bill: The amount of such charge shall be billed
periodically to the person owing the same, and shall be added to the water
bill, if any, owing by such person to the City.
   C.   Failure To Pay Bill; Water Service Discontinued: In case of the failure
of such person to pay the same in full within ten (10) days after the bill for
the same has been mailed by the City Clerk, the City's water services to such
premises shall be discontinued until it is paid in full; such person shall also
be civilly liable to the City for such sum. (2007 Code § 16-89)
9-6-6: WORK DONE BY CITY PERSONNEL:
Whenever the work of garbage collection and disposal is effected by the City
and is hired labor instead of by contract, the City shall see that all
provisions of section
9-6-4 of this chapter are fully observed. (2007 Code § 16-88)
9-6-7: ACCUMULATION A NUISANCE; CONTAINERS:
   A.   Allowing Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
in charge of any lot or piece of ground to allow solid waste to accumulate
thereon, so as to cause an offensive odor to be emitted therefrom or to become
injurious or dangerous to the health of the neighborhood or any inhabitant
thereof. Any such condition is hereby declared a violation of this chapter and
punishable as such, and in addition is declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated as such.
   B.   Construction; Container Required; Premises Kept Clean:
      1.   Any person constructing any structure within the City shall, prior
to construction on any premises, furnish and place on said premises a container
of suitable size and design (35 gallon maximum) to contain all solid waste
which might, by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the
premises; said container shall be used by the person concerned at all times to
keep the premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste, and shall always be
kept covered.
      2.   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows said waste to
blow or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the
streets, shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance, and shall be subject to
the penalties in this Code prescribed therefor.
   C.   Business And Residential Premises; Container Requirements:
      1.   Persons occupying business and residential premises in the City
shall provide suitable containers in which they shall deposit all garbage,
trash, refuse, lawn clippings, tree and shrubbery trimmings, rubbish and like
waste material, easily accessible to the garbage, when required by the
Governing Board.
      2.   A suitable container shall be a thirty five (35) gallon garbage
container, with lid, placed in a rack so the container is six inches (6") off
the ground and constructed so it cannot be turned over.
      3.   Wherever practicable, such containers shall be kept at or near the
alley line in the rear of the premises, and no one shall place or maintain any
obstruction in any alley in the City that will interfere with free access of
the garbage collector's vehicle through such alley. (2007 Code § 16-83)
9-6-8: BURNING OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   It shall be an offense for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of unlawfully
burning or incinerating any solid waste.
   B.   It shall be an offense to construct or install, within any building in
the City, an unlawful incinerator designed to burn solid wastes. (2007 Code §
16-85)
9-6-9: REMOVAL OF MANURE, FERTILIZER:
From premises occupied by him, any person has the right to remove stable manure
or other refuse having a value as fertilizer or otherwise, provided he removes
the same in a vehicle with a bed or box sufficiently tight to prevent spillage
in hauling, and provided he causes the same to be hauled away before it becomes
a nuisance. (2007 Code § 16-86)
9-6-10: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to cleanings from toilets or
privies, as it is unlawful to maintain in the City any such facilities, other
than water toilets connected with the sanitary sewer and pit type, flyproof,
sanitary toilets constructed in a manner approved by the State Department of
Health. (2007 Code § 16-84)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
CODES AND CODE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Codes Adopted
10-1-2: Modifications Of Adopted Codes
10-1-3: Adopted Codes On File; Effect; Conflicts
10-1-4: Building Inspector To Enforce Codes
10-1-5: Maintenance Of Historic Sites; Dangerous Conditions
10-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The particular model codes listed below, as adopted and amended by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission (the "OUBCC") in the Oklahoma State Statutes
and Oklahoma Administrative Code, are hereby adopted and incorporated in the
Code, as fully as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of establishing
rules and regulations for the following activities carried on within the
corporate limits of the City:
   A.   Building Code: The construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures:
International Building Code (IBC), current edition, published by the
International Code Council.
   B.   Existing Building Code: The repair, alteration, addition and change of
occupancy for existing buildings and historic buildings:
International Existing Building Code (IEBC), current edition, published by the
International Code Council.
   C.   Plumbing Code: The installation or alteration of plumbing and drainage
systems for buildings and structures:
International Plumbing Code (IPC), current edition, published by the
International Code Council.
   D.   Electrical Code: The installation or alteration of electrical equipment
for buildings or structures:
National Electric Code (NEC), current edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association.
   E.   Housing Code: The provisions of basic, minimum housing standards for
the preservation of the health, safety and welfare of occupants:
International Residential Code (IRC), current edition, published by the
International Code Council.
   F.   Fire Prevention Code: The provision of basic safeguards to life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion:
International Fire Code (IFC), current edition, published by the International
Code Council.
   G.   Gas Code: The installation or alteration of gas systems for buildings
or structures:
International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC), current edition, published by the
International Code Council.
   H.   Energy Conservation Code: The provision of basic standards for energy
conservation in buildings and structures:
International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), current edition, published by
the International Code Council.
   I.   Mechanical Code: The provision of basic standards for mechanical
installations in buildings and structures:
International Mechanical Code, current edition, published by the International
Code Council.
   J.   Property Maintenance Code: The provision of basic standards governing
the maintenance of existing buildings:
International Property Maintenance Code (IMC), current edition, published by
the International Code Council. (2007 Code § 4-1; amd. 2019 Code)
10-1-2: MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES:
   A.   Wherever the words "City" or "Municipality" are used in those model
construction codes adopted, it shall mean the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
   B.   Wherever the words "inspector", "building inspector" or "administrative
official" are used in those model construction codes adopted, it shall mean the
Municipal official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of
Municipal building inspector for the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
   C.   All official titles used in those model construction codes adopted
shall be interpreted as defined in this Code.
   D.   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those model
construction codes adopted shall be provided in section
10-2-10 of this title.
   E.   Notwithstanding any provisions of any of those model construction codes
adopted by this chapter, wood shingles may be used for roofing.
   F.   All limits, except "fire limits", referred to in any of those model
construction codes adopted by this chapter are hereby established as the
corporate limits of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma. (2007 Code § 4-2; amd. 2019
Code)
10-1-3: ADOPTED CODES ON FILE; EFFECT; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Three (3) copies of all of the codes referenced in section
10-1-1 of this chapter adopted by the City are on file in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   B.   From the effective date hereof, the provisions of said codes, as herein
modified, shall be controlling in those areas set forth hereinabove, within the
corporate limits of the City.
   C.   Whenever any provision of any of those model construction codes adopted
by this chapter conflict with this Code, the latter provisions shall govern.
(2007 Code § 4-3; amd. 2019 Code)
10-1-4: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE CODES:
Any certified Municipal official, or other certified employee designated by the
City Manager, shall be responsible for enforcing the model construction codes
adopted by this chapter. Said persons may bear subtitles as "building
inspector", "gas inspector", "plumbing inspector", "electrical inspector",
etc., as may be deemed appropriate to indicate their respective areas of
concern, and shall be appointed or designated by the City Manager. (2007 Code §
4-4; amd. 2019 Code)
10-1-5: MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC SITES; DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Improvements: Every person in charge of an improvement on a historic
site or in a Historic District shall keep in good repair all of the exterior
portions of such improvement and all interior portions which, if not so
maintained, may cause, or tend to cause, the exterior portions of such
improvement to fall into a state of disrepair. This section shall be in
addition to all other provisions of law, local ordinance or codes requiring
buildings or structures to be well maintained.
   B.   Variances: Insofar as they are applicable to a landmark, historic site
or improvement in a Historic District, any provision of the Building Code may
be varied or waived, on application, by the Municipal building inspector,
provided such variance or waiver does not endanger public health or safety.
   C.   Construction Or Alteration: Nothing contained in this chapter shall
prohibit the construction, reconstruction, alteration, demolition or any
improvement on a historic site or in a Historic District pursuant to written
order of any Federal or State agency or pursuant to any court judgment to
remedy conditions determined to be dangerous to life or health. In such case,
no approval from the State Preservation Review Commission shall be required.
(2007 Code § 4-5; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Display Of Address Numbers
10-2-2: Fire Limits
10-2-3: Movement Of Frame Buildings
10-2-4: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
10-2-5: Driveway Paving
10-2-6: Off-Street Parking
10-2-7: Installation Of Smoke Detectors
10-2-8: Fire Extinguishers In Businesses
10-2-9: Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees
10-2-10: Penalty
10-2-11: Fencing Requirement For Swimming Pools
10-2-1: DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS:
   A.   Requirements For Display: All address numbers for residential and
commercial buildings shall be displayed in accordance with the following
requirements:
      1.   Numbers shall be plainly visible and legible from the street, alley,
or fire lane.
      2.   Numbers shall be displayed on the building to which they are
assigned. As an alternative to displaying the numbers on the building, the City
Manager may approve the display of an assigned number on an accessory building
when the orientation of the accessory building or monument sign affords better
visibility of the building's address from the street, alley, or fire lane.
      3.   Numbers displayed on one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses
facing the street or accessway shall be no less than four inches (4") in
height. Numbers displayed on buildings other than one- and two-family dwellings
and townhouses facing the street, alley, or fire lane shall be no less than six
inches (6") in height. The City Manager may require numbers displayed on a
building to be larger than the minimum height if a larger height is needed to
make the numbers plainly visible and legible from the street, alley, or fire
lane.
      4.   Numbers shall be in wide stroke block numerical form. Scroll
numbers, spelled numbers or numbers on mailboxes may be used in addition to
those in numerical form but shall not be considered adequate substitutes.
      5.   When a complex of commercial, multi-family and/or townhouse
buildings are assigned separate unit numbers or more than one street number,
and all unit numbers or street numbers do not face a single street, alley, or
fire lane, a directory sign shall be displayed indicating where the buildings
and assigned street numbers or unit numbers are located. The directory sign
shall be provided in addition to the numbers required to be displayed on the
buildings. Directory signs shall be located and plainly visible and legible
from each vehicular access into the site from a street. Directory signs shall
indicate all buildings, streets and accessways within the complex. The City
Manager may also require directional signs within the complex indicating the
assigned street numbers or unit numbers for buildings abutting the accessway.
Directional signs shall be plainly visible from the accessway.
      6.   Numbers shall be of a contrasting color to the background to which
they are attached.
      7.   Numbers shall be arranged in a horizontal, or near horizontal,
configuration. The arrangement shall not exceed forty five degrees (45°) from
horizontal.
      8.   Numbers shall not be covered or obscured by landscaping, fencing,
accessory structures, vehicles or other objects that impair their visibility
from the street, alley, or fire lane.
   B.   Mailboxes And Curbs: Addresses are required on both sides of mailboxes
located in the public right-of-way. Address numbers are not required on the
curb but are allowed. Address numbers on the curb cannot be substituted for
address numbers on the buildings.
   C.   Commercial Buildings: All official building numbers must be posted on
the front and rear of commercial buildings so the numbers are clearly visible
from the street, alley, or fire lane. Rear numbers shall be posted on the rear
door of the building. If there is more than one rear door, the official
building number shall be posted on all doors and the business name must be
displayed on the outside of at least one rear door.
   D.   Compliance; Penalty: Each property owner or tenant shall cause the
address number assigned to his premises to be affixed thereto in accordance
with this section. Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs. (Ord. 100614-
1, 10-6-2014)
10-2-2: FIRE LIMITS:
   A.   The following area within the corporate limits of the City shall
embrace and constitute the "fire limits" of the City:
      1.   Lots 1, 14, 15 and 16 in Block 6, Original Townsite;
      2.   All lots in Blocks 9, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 16, Original Townsite;
      3.   All lots between Main Street and the alley in Block 17, Original
Townsite;
      4.   All lots between Main Street and the alley in Block 18, Original
Townsite;
      5.   All lots between Main Street and the alley in Block 27, Original
Townsite; and
      6.   All lots between Main Street and the alley in Block 28, Original
Townsite.
   B.   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
build, erect, construct or cause to be built, erected or constructed, or place
or move within the area described in subsection A of this section, any building
or addition thereto, unless the walls of such building or addition shall be
built or constructed of stone, brick or other noncombustible material. It shall
also be unlawful to rebuild any building which has been more than fifty percent
(50%) destroyed by fire, except as herein stated. (2007 Code § 4-101)
10-2-3: MOVEMENT OF FRAME BUILDINGS:
No frame building shall be moved from without to within the corporate limits of
the City, which by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring or
which, for any other reason, is unfit for human habitation or which might
endanger the public peace, safety, health or welfare. (2007 Code § 4-102)
10-2-4: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   A grease interceptor shall be installed in the waste line leading
from sinks, drains or other fixtures in restaurants, hotel kitchens, cafeterias
and food processing establishments, and in any bar, lounge, private club or
fountain where food is prepared or served, or where dishes, glasses, pots, pans
or other kitchenwares are washed, or any other establishment where grease or
broken glass can be introduced into the drainage system in quantities that can
effect line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal. Grease, oil and sand
interceptors are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other ingredients
harmful to the building's drainage system, the public sewer or the Municipal
Sewage Treatment Plant.
      2.   Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
residential dwelling units.
      3.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as defined in the
City's current adopted Plumbing Code and shall be approved by the Municipal
building inspector. All interceptors shall be located so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be
properly inspected following construction, by the Municipal building inspector,
and shall be privately maintained, at the owner's expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
      4.   An oil separator shall be installed in the drainage system of any
establishment where, in the judgment of the Municipal building inspector, a
hazard exists or where oils or other flammables can be introduced or admitted
into the public sewer by accident or otherwise.
      5.   All garages, filling stations and car washes having car wash racks
or facilities shall install combination grit and grease interceptors.
      6.   All commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor
having a removable wire basket or similar device that will prevent strings,
rags, buttons or other materials detrimental to the Municipal sewer system from
passing into the drainage system.
      7.   Bottling plants shall discharge all processed wastes into an
interceptor which will provide for the separation of broken glass or other
solids, before discharging liquid wastes into the Municipal sewer or storm
drainage systems.
      8.   Slaughterhouses shall equip all slaughtering room drains with a
separator which shall prevent the discharge of feathers, entrails and other
material likely to clog the drainage system.
   B.   Time Limit For Installation: All existing establishments listed in
subsection A1 of this section shall have ninety (90) days from the effective
date hereof to install an improved interceptor or separator. Establishments
covered under subsection A4 of this section will be handled on a case by case
basis to determine whether an oil separator is required. All establishments
covered under subsection A1 of this section, constructed henceforth, shall
include an approved interceptor.
   C.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The Municipal building inspector,
Utilities Superintendent or City Manager shall have the right of entry during
usual business hours, to conduct an inspection of an interceptor or separator.
   D.   Notice Of Violation; Satisfactory Correction: Any person found to be in
violation of this section shall be served with written notice stating the
violation and providing seventy two (72) hours for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. In the event an establishment is cited with a
second violation within six (6) months of the first, the time allowed for
correction shall be reduced to forty eight (48) hours. A third citation within
six (6) months from the first violation will be cause for the City to
immediately discontinue water service to the establishment, during which time
the offender shall correct the violation.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection D of this section and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 4-104)
10-2-5: DRIVEWAY PAVING:
Whenever it is necessary to alter an existing driveway or construct a new
driveway connecting to existing paving, it shall be a requirement that the
driveway shall be hard surfaced from the property line to the existing street
pavement, in a manner approved by the Municipal building inspector. The paving
shall conform to the typical paving section and specifications on file in the
Office of the City Clerk. (2007 Code § 4-105)
10-2-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
All off-street parking shall be designed, constructed and utilized in
accordance with the provisions and requirements contained in the community's
adopted Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations Ordinance. (2007 Code § 4-
106)
10-2-7: INSTALLATION OF SMOKE DETECTORS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "smoke detector"
means a device which is:
      1.   Designed to detect visible or invisible products of combustion;
      2.   Designed with an alarm audible to the rooms it serves;
      3.   Powered by either battery, alternating current, or other power
source; and
      4.   Tested and listed for use as a smoke detector by a recognized
testing laboratory.
   B.   Compliance With State Laws And Codes: Any person, partnership,
corporation, organization or the City, owning a building or structure used as a
hospital, church, theater, hotel, motel, apartment house, rooming house,
dormitory, rest home, nursing home, day nursery, convalescent home, auditorium,
or childcare institution, existing or constructed in the City shall install in
such building or structure a smoke detector or detectors pursuant to 74
Oklahoma Statutes section 324.11a, as amended, and in accordance with the
nationally recognized codes, standards, or practices adopted by the Oklahoma
State Fire Marshal Commission to safeguard life and property from the hazards
of smoke and fire.
   C.   Testing Smoke Detectors Of Residences: Any person, partnership, or
corporation who is a lessor of a residential rental property shall explain to
the lessee or tenant the method of testing the smoke detector to ensure that it
is in working order. The responsibility for checking a smoke detector to find
out whether such detector is in working order is with the tenant or lessee
leasing or renting a one- or two- family dwelling, including an apartment in
each apartment house, and not with the person, partnership, or corporation who
is a lessor of the residential rental property to the lessee or tenant.
   D.   Responsibility For Installation: All new construction or remodeling of
residential dwellings which requires a building permit shall include the
installment of smoke detectors or the electrical wiring necessary for the
installment of electrical smoke detectors.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of subsection
B of this section or any person who tampers with, removes, destroys,
disconnects or removes power from any installed smoke detector, except in the
course of inspection, maintenance or replacement of the detector, upon
conviction, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   F.   Enforcement: The City shall enforce the rules of the State Fire Marshal
Commission as provided by law. (2007 Code § 4-107; amd. 2019 Code)
10-2-8: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN BUSINESSES:
   A.   Extinguishers Required: Every person, firm or corporation, owning or
operating a place of business within the City, is hereby required to own, keep
and maintain therein, such firefighting equipment (i.e., fire extinguishers) as
the Fire Department requires. The equipment shall be inspected regularly by the
Fire Department.
   B.   Maintenance And Recharging; Fee: Maintenance or recharging of such
equipment may be done by the Fire Department; provided, that a fee sufficient
to cover the cost of said service, shall be paid by the owner to the City.
(2007 Code § 7-23)
10-2-9: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Nonliability: Any officer or employee of the City charged with the
enforcement of this title, and acting in good faith and without malice, for the
City, in the discharge of official duties, shall not thereby be rendered liable
personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage
that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or omission
required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   B.   Defending Suit: Any suit brought against any officer or employee
because of such act or omission performed in the enforcement of any provisions
of adopted codes may be defended by the Municipal Attorney until the final
termination of the proceedings. (2007 Code § 4-109)
10-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to do any thing required by this
title or by any code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this title, who shall otherwise violate any provision of this title
or of any code adopted by this title, or who shall violate any lawful
regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for in this title,
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 4-200)
10-2-11: FENCING REQUIREMENT FOR SWIMMING POOLS:
The city shall require the swimming pools three (3) feet in depth or more to be
properly fenced in accordance with this and other sections of this Code:
   A.   Fencing requirements around swimming pool areas:
      1.   Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool,
which contains thirty-six inches (36") or more of water in depth at any point,
shall erect, and maintain thereon an adequate enclosure either surrounding the
property or pool area, sufficient to make such body of water inaccessible to
small children. Such enclosure, including gates therein, shall not be less than
four feet (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground. All gates shall be self-
latching with latches placed four feet (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground
and otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small children.
      2.   A natural barrier, hedge, pool cover, or other protective device
approved by the city inspector may be used so long as the degree of protection
afforded by the substituted devices or structures is not less than the
protection afforded by the enclosure, gate and latch described herein. (Ord.
11082021-12. 11-8-2021)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING RELATED OFFICIALS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Registration Of Certain Contractors
10-3-2: Municipal Building Inspector
10-3-3: Electrical Inspector
10-3-4: Plumbing Inspector
10-3-5: Mechanical Inspector
10-3-1: REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Plumbing And Gas Fitting:
      1.   Any person desiring to engage in the business of plumbing or
plumbing contracting in the City shall first register with the Office of the
City Clerk. All registrants shall be State licensed.
      2.   No person shall do any plumbing, gas fitting, extensions, connection
of fixtures or repairs to any gas fitting, except a State licensed and locally
registered plumber, as provided in this Code.
      3.   The fee for plumber's registration shall be twenty dollars ($20.00)
per year.
   B.   Electricians:
      1.   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or individuals
engaged, or hereafter engaging, in the business of installing electrical
fixtures, wiring or apparatus in or on any building within the City shall
register with the Office of the City Clerk before they may engage in said
activities. All registrants shall be State licensed.
      2.   The electrician's registration fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00)
per year.
   C.   Mechanical Contractors:
      1.   All persons in the business of designing, assembling, erecting,
constructing, installing, altering, servicing, repairing or maintaining
refrigeration, air conditioning, heating and/or ventilation systems must first
register with the Office of the City Clerk. All registrants must be State
licensed, if required.
      2.   The mechanical contractor's registration fee shall be twenty dollars
($20.00) per year.
   D.   Air Conditioning And Refrigeration Work: It shall be unlawful for any
person to install or make repairs on any air conditioning, refrigeration or
heating system without registering in accord with the provisions of this title.
It shall likewise be unlawful for any contractor to employ any person to do
such work unless such employee is registered under the provisions of this
section.
   E.   Right Of Entry For Building Inspector: Every person owning, leasing,
operating or in possession of any building or structure within the City shall
permit the Municipal building inspector to enter such building or structure as
often as it shall be deemed necessary by said inspector for the purpose of
discharging any duties prescribed by this title, and it shall be unlawful for
any owner, occupant or lessee of any premises to prevent or to refuse to permit
such entry. Said inspector shall, upon request of the owner, occupant or lessee
of any premises, exhibit the authority to make such entry.
   F.   Request For Variance: If, in the performance of any work under this
title, the contractor finds that, on account of the mechanical construction of
the building, location of fixtures, or some other reason, it would be
impossible to abide by the letter of this title, the Municipal building
inspector may be asked for a variance, by stating reasons for any changes and
setting forth the conditions, with a statement of the desire to request
exceptions to the provisions of this title for the particular job. If said
inspector finds that the conditions warrant and that it would be impractical
and unreasonable to require strict conformance, a special ruling may be made,
to safeguard life and property, on the proposed work. In all such cases,
persons engaged in such work or installation, and holding registration under
this title, shall be notified in writing of the decision.
   G.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Registration; Reasons: The Municipal
building inspector may revoke or suspend the registration of any person,
persons or corporation convicted of any violation of this title, or for any of
the following reasons:
      1.   Wilful fraud or misrepresentation practiced in procuring or renewing
any registration or license;
      2.   Dishonesty;
      3.   Gross incompetency;
      4.   Conduct likely to, or intended to, deceive or defraud the public;
      5.   The loaning of any license, registration or permit to any person or
persons for any reason whatsoever;
      6.   The obtaining of compensation by fraud or misrepresentation;
      7.   The wilful advertising or publishing, or otherwise making known, of
any grossly false, fraudulent or misleading statements of business skill,
knowledge or methods of operation;
      8.   The construction, design, installation, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any refrigeration or air conditioning equipment in such a manner
as to be detrimental to the safety, health or welfare of the general public;
      9.   For any misconduct in the use of a registration or transaction
thereunder; or
      10.   For the violation or disregard of any regulations of the City.
(2007 Code § 4-103)
10-3-2: MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the office of Municipal building
inspector within the administrative structure of the City. The Municipal
building inspector shall be appointed by the City Manager; said appointment
shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. This position may
also be filled, on a contractual basis, if necessary.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the Municipal building
inspector shall be as follows:
      1.   To enforce all provisions of the codes adopted by this Code;
      2.   To receive and process applications required by such adopted codes
or this Code;
      3.   To review building permit applications, other permit applications,
issue required certificates and serve as the Zoning Administration Officer for
the City;
      4.   To examine premises for which permits have been issued under such
adopted codes or this Code and make necessary inspections to see that the
provisions of the adopted codes or this Code are complied with and that
construction is done safely;
      5.   To investigate, when requested by the City Commission, or when the
public interest so requires, matters referred to in such adopted codes and
render written reports on the same;
      6.   To issue such notices or orders as may be necessary to enforce
compliance with the adopted codes or this Code, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction or to
require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures; and
      7.   To make inspections required under the provisions of the codes
adopted by this Code, or to ensure that inspections are made by a duly
appointed assistant.
   C.   Acting Building Inspector: During any temporary absence of the
Municipal building inspector, the City Manager may designate an acting building
inspector; the City Clerk shall serve as acting building inspector, unless the
City Manager designates another person as such, by motion.
   D.   Right Of Entry For Inspections: The Municipal building inspector, while
in the discharge of official duty, shall have the authority to enter any
building or premises for the purpose of making any inspection or test of the
construction or equipment contained therein, or its installation.
   E.   Act As Other Inspectors: The Municipal building inspector may perform
electrical or plumbing inspections and may also serve as the electrical or
plumbing inspector, if so designated by the City Manager.
   F.   Request For Inspection By State: In the event the City is absent an
inspector or a construction project is such that the City inspector does not
believe he is qualified to perform the inspections, the City Manager may
request an inspection from the State Health Department. (2007 Code § 1-28)
10-3-3: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the office of electrical inspector
within the administrative structure of the City. The electrical inspector shall
be appointed by the City Manager.
   B.   Qualifications: The electrical inspector shall have had experience as
an electrician, shall be of good moral character, shall be knowledgeable of the
approved methods of electrical construction and shall be certified by the
State.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The electrical inspector shall have all of the
powers and duties prescribed by the National Electrical Code adopted by this
Code, shall be certified by the State, and shall also ensure that all Municipal
ordinances and regulations relating to electrical wiring and maintenance are
properly enforced.
   D.   Request For Inspection By State: In the event the City is absent an
inspector or a construction project is such that the City inspector does not
believe he is qualified to perform the inspection, the City Manager may request
an inspection from the State Health Department. (2007 Code § 1-29)
10-3-4: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the office of plumbing inspector
within the administrative structure of the City. The plumbing inspector shall
be appointed by the City Manager; the plumbing inspector may also hold other
positions in the Municipal government.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The plumbing inspector shall have all of the powers
and duties prescribed by the Plumbing Code adopted by this Code, shall be
certified by the State, and shall also ensure that all Municipal ordinances and
regulations relating to water and sanitary plumbing are properly enforced.
   C.   Request For Inspection By State: In the event the City is absent an
inspector or a construction project is such that the City inspector does not
believe he is qualified to perform the inspection, the City Manager may request
an inspection from the State Health Department. (2007 Code § 1-30)
10-3-5: MECHANICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of mechanical
inspector for the City, said person to be appointed by the City Manager.
   B.   Qualifications: The mechanical inspector shall have experience with,
and knowledge of, the operations covered by the City's adopted Mechanical Code.
   C.   Request For Inspection By State: In the event the City is absent an
inspector or a construction project is such that the City inspector does not
believe he is qualified to perform the inspection, the City Manager may request
an inspection from the State Health Department. (2007 Code § 1-31)
CHAPTER 4
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
10-4-1: General Building Permit Requirements
10-4-2: Fence Building Permits
10-4-3: Mobile, Manufactured Or Modular Home Placement Permits
10-4-4: Building Permit Requirements In Flood Hazard Areas
10-4-5: House Moving Permits
10-4-6: Pavement Cutting Permits
10-4-7: Ditching Permits
10-4-8: Permits For Pipes Across Streets
10-4-9: Demolition Permits
10-4-10: Liquefied Petroleum Gas State Permits
10-4-11: Certificate Of Appropriateness For Restoration Work
10-4-12: Building Inspection Fee Schedule
10-4-1: GENERAL BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required For Various Construction Activities: No person shall
erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially improve, repair, place,
alter, move or demolish any building, structure, mobile, modular or
manufactured home, or initiate any other construction, without first obtaining
a separate building permit for each such building or structure from the Office
of the City Clerk. Said permit shall be in addition to, and separate from, all
other requirements for zoning clearance permits, occupancy certificates or
certificates of appropriateness.
   B.   Building Permit Regulations And Application Process:
      1.   Administration Of Building Permit Process: The Office of the City
Clerk shall be responsible for the administration of the building permit
process; provided, that building permit application forms may be obtained from,
and submitted to, the City building inspector.
      2.   Permit Application Information And Accompanying Documents:
Applications for building permits shall contain all applicable information
required on the building permit form, and shall be accompanied by drawings of
the proposed work (drawn to scale), showing floor plans, structural details,
computations and such additional information as may be required of the
applicant by the Office of the City Clerk, the City building inspector, this
Code or the City Commission.
      3.   Application For Permit; Fee: All applications for building permits
shall be signed and in writing, upon an official blank form supplied by the
Office of the City Clerk or the City building inspector, and shall be submitted
to either of said officials, along with the required fee.
      4.   Building Permit Fee Determination: Building permit fees shall be as
determined by the City Commission, and shall be based primarily upon the City
costs incurred in the administration of the City building permit system.
      5.   Extensive Review Of Application: Upon receipt of a complete building
permit application and the required fee, the City Clerk shall immediately turn
the application over to the City building inspector, who shall review the
application to ensure that:
         a.   The involved land is properly zoned for the proposed use;
         b.   Applicable zoning district provisions (including Floodway and
Floodway Fringe District provisions), and any applicable historic preservation
provisions, have been met;
         c.   Legally-dedicated roadway access is available, and proof of such
dedication has been provided;
         d.   Adequate and sanitary provisions have been made for utilities,
and fire protection is also adequate;
         e.   All easements and street right-of-way areas provided in the
recorded plat, if any, are not encroached upon; to this end, the builder of any
structure located in the City shall, by receipt of the building permit, agree
to furnish the purchaser(s) of the structure(s) with a survey of the lot(s) and
structure(s) thereon, upon completion of construction, indicating compliance
with this requirement; said survey shall be signed by a surveyor licensed in
the State of Oklahoma;
         f.   All other floodplain regulations, if applicable, have been met
and the required information provided;
         g.   Applicable historic preservation regulations have been met
(chapter 5 of this title and any appropriate provisions of chapter 9 of this
title); and
         h.   All other required City permits and/or licenses have been
obtained.
      6.   Issuance Authorized And Forwarded To City Clerk And Applicant: If
the City building inspector is satisfied that the proposed work described in
the application and attached materials conform to the requirements of the
adopted Zoning Ordinance, Building Code and other regulations and requirements,
the issuance of the building permit shall be authorized by signing the
application and forwarding it to the Office of the City Clerk, who shall return
a copy to the applicant.
      7.   Disapproval; Reasons Listed; Resubmitting Application: If the
application or attached materials do not conform to pertinent City regulations,
the City building inspector shall not approve said application, but shall
return the application to the City Clerk, along with written reason(s) for
disapproval. The City Clerk shall return the application, with written reason
(s) attached, to the applicant. The applicant may subsequently amend the
application, if possible, and resubmit it, or initiate other action to correct
the deficiencies.
      8.   Completion Of Review Process In Timely Manner: The City building
inspector and the Office of the City Clerk shall complete all required review
processes in an efficient and effective manner, without unreasonable or
unnecessary delay.
      9.   Restrictions Allowed On Approved Permit: A building permit, once
approved and issued, shall be construed as authorization to proceed with the
work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set
aside any City regulations, nor shall such issuance prevent the City building
inspector from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans,
construction or a violation of this Code.
      10.   Time Limit For Initiation Of Work: If the work allowed under an
issued building permit has not been initiated within six (6) months from the
issuance date of said permit, such permit shall become null and void, unless a
request for an extension is submitted to, and approved by, the City Commission;
such extension request must be submitted to the City Commission prior to the
end of said six (6) month period. If said permit becomes null and void, a new
permit must be obtained and the regular fee incident thereto collected, in
order for the work to be initiated or resumed.
      11.   Record Of Permits Issued And Fee Payments: The City Clerk shall
keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all building permits, and shall
transmit copies of each permit issued to the City building inspector, for
information purposes. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent and accurate record
of all building permit fee payments.
      12.   Revocation Of Building Permit: The City Clerk may revoke a building
permit in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a
material fact in the application or attached materials on which the building
permit approval was based. Noncompliance shall also be grounds for non-issuance
or revocation of a permit by the City Clerk.
      13.   Display Of Permit On Project Or Site: Building permits shall be
conspicuously displayed on the project or site, in a manner visible from the
street.
      14.   Monitoring Of Utility Hookups: The City Clerk and the City building
inspector shall monitor City utility hookup requests and shall not allow City
utilities to be turned on to any unit, structure or project for which a
building permit has not been issued.
      15.   Appeals From Aggrieved Persons: Appeals from any person concerning
a decision of the City Clerk relative to the granting of building permits,
shall be taken to the Administrative Body, who shall act as the Permit Board of
Appeals for the City. The Board of City Commissioners hereby designates the
City Manager, Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Police
Department as the Administrative Body. At least two (2) members of the
Administrative Body shall appear for hearings and a finding requires a majority
vote of the Administrative Body. The aggrieved person shall have the right of
appeal to the Board of City Commissioners from any order of the Administrative
Body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
      16.   Conflicts; Prevailing Provisions: In the event of any conflict
between the building permit provisions delineated herein and any provision(s)
of the Building Code adopted by the City Commission, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail.
   C.   Minor Repairs Not Requiring Permit: Minor repairs of buildings or
structures, the cost of which shall not exceed one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00), may be made without obtaining a building permit; provided,
that all plumbing, electrical or mechanical work covered by adopted model
construction codes, shall require an appropriate permit. Construction of
accessory buildings under one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area may also
occur without a building permit; provided, that the structure cannot have any
water, sewer or electrical hookups, and the structure is not to be constructed
within any dedicated road or alley right-of-way, or in violation of the Zoning
Ordinance. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 06082020-12, 6-8-2020)
10-4-2: FENCE BUILDING PERMITS:
An applicant for a building permit related to the construction, replacement or
major repair (more than fifty percent (50%) of any type of fence in the City
shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   The fence shall be in full compliance with the city's adopted Zoning
Ordinance, including specific references, if any, to setback limitations;
   B.   Any fencing located in front of the main structure shall be no higher
than four feet (4');
   C.   Fencing shall not cause any obstruction to any public right-of-way or
drainage easement, excluding utility easements (where fencing shall be placed
on either the easement line of the property line, depending on the remaining
fence placements in the adjacent lots);
   D.   No fencing shall be allowed to obstruct the sight triangle
intersections or comers.
   E.   See Attachment "A" below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/87d9ba68b3e5352bd73eccdf8685cf79810481c7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1445.png]
(2019 Code; amd. Ord. 09142020-14, 9-14-2020; Ord. 02142022-03, 2-14-2022)
10-4-3: MOBILE, MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOME PLACEMENT PERMITS:
No mobile, manufactured or modular home shall be placed on improved or
unimproved real estate without first obtaining a separate building permit for
each such home from the Office of the City Clerk. (2019 Code)
10-4-4: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
In addition to the building permit requirements in section
10-4-1 of this chapter, the following shall be required to obtain a building
permit in a flood hazard area:
   A.   Manmade Changes To Real Estate: No manmade change to improved or
unimproved real estate located within a designated flood hazard area,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be initiated
until a separate building permit has been obtained for each such operation from
the Office of the City Clerk.
   B.   Permit Applications And Requirements For Development: Building permit
applications for development, location, demolition or alteration within
delineated flood hazard areas (as shown on the community's official Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), dated January 6, 1983, including a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR), effective November 2001, which are hereby adopted by reference
as if set out fully herein), shall be reviewed by the City building inspector
to ensure that all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   All building sites shall be reasonably safe from flooding; if a
proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvement (including the placement of pre-fabricated buildings
and mobile homes) shall:
         a.   Be designed, modified and/or adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure; all manufactured
housing to be placed within Zone A on the community's Flood Hazard Boundary Map
(FHBM) shall be anchored by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground
anchors; over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate points,
and manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring one additional
tie per side; frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home, with
five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, and manufactured
homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per
side; all components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; any additions to the home
shall be similarly anchored;
         b.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
         c.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage; and
         d.   Be constructed with electrical, heating, plumbing, ventilation
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed
and/or located to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      2.   All new and replacement water supply systems within flood- prone
areas shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems.
      3.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   On-site waste disposal systems within flood-prone areas shall be
located to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during
flooding.
      5.   The City building inspector shall utilize all available 100-year
flood elevation data to review building permit applications, and shall require
that all applications for development within a flood-prone area be accompanied
by: a) the elevation of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all
new or substantially improved structures; and b) a certificate signed by a
registered professional engineer or architect, stating that the floodproofing
methods to be utilized are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
100-year flood, and indicating the specific elevation to which the structure
will be floodproofed. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      6.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures within Zones A1-30 on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1') above
the level of the 100-year flood.
      7.   Within Zones A1-30 on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM),
all manufactured housing not in a park or subdivision, all new manufactured
housing parks and subdivisions, all expansions to existing manufactured housing
parks and subdivisions, and all repairs, reconstruction or improvement of
streets, utilities and/or pads in existing manufactured housing parks or
subdivisions, shall be located, developed, expanded or improved according to
the following criteria:
         a.   All manufactured housing shall be placed, or be capable of being
placed, on compacted fill or on pilings, so that the lowest floor of the home
will be one foot (1') above the level of the 100-year flood;
         b.   All lots shall have adequate provisions for surface drainage and
access; and
         c.   All manufactured housing to be elevated on pilings shall: 1) be
placed on lots large enough to permit steps; 2) provide for piling foundations
to be placed in stable or stabilized soils, no more than ten feet (10') apart;
and 3) provide for reinforcement of piers more than six feet (6') above ground
level.
      8.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures located within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone, as shown on
the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade or the crown of
the nearest street, one foot (1') above the depth number specified for the area
on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). Within Zone AH or AO, adequate
drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be required.
      9.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within Zones A1-30 on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
shall:
         a.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1')
above the level of the 100-year flood; or
         b.   Be designed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, so that, below the level of the 100-year flood, the structure is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
contains structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
      10.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone on the City's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) shall:
         a.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade or the crown of the nearest street, one foot (1') above
the depth number specified on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM); or
         b.   Be completely floodproofed, along with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, to one foot (1') above the depth number specified on the
City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), so that any space below the level is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
contains structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be required to include, within Zones AH or AO, adequate drainage
paths around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
      11.   The requirements of this section shall also be in effect for
building permit applications for development located within any A99 Zones on
the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
      12.   Floodways, as designated on the City's Official Flood Hazard
Boundary Map (FHBM), are hazardous areas due to: a) the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris and potentially damaging projectiles; and b) the creation of
severe erosion problems; the following provisions apply within designated
floodway areas:
         a.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided, demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
         b.   If the provisions of subsection B1 of this section are satisfied,
all new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this Code.
   C.   Additional Inspector Responsibilities Concerning Development In Flood
Hazard Areas: The City building inspector shall have the following additional
responsibilities in the review of building permit applications for development,
location, demolition or alteration within a delineated flood hazard area:
      1.   Building permit applications shall be reviewed to ensure that all
necessary governmental agency permits required by State or Federal law have
been obtained.
      2.   In the case of building permit applications for alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, the City building inspector shall:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the State Flood Insurance
Coordinating Office prior to such work (and submit copies of such notification
to the Federal Flood Insurance Administrator); and
         b.   Obtain written assurances from the building permit applicant that
the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the
watercourse will be maintained.
      3.   For the purpose of determining future flood insurance risk premium
rates, the City building inspector shall maintain records of:
         a.   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor of all new or
substantially improved structures; and
         b.   Floodproofing certificates (including the specific elevation to
which the structures are floodproofed).
      4.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the City
building inspector must require that no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
community.
      5.   The City building inspector shall utilize the full range of the
community's Floodplain Management Regulations in this review.
   D.   Building Permit Issuance; Nonliability: Issuance of a building permit
for development within an identified flood hazard area shall not create
liability on the part of any City official for any flood damage resulting from
reliance upon the provisions of this section, or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder. (2019 Code)
10-4-5: HOUSE MOVING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any person shall move any house, building or
heavy structure (but not including a mobile or manufactured home) on or over
any nonfederal or nonstate roadway within or through the City, it shall first
be necessary to obtain a house moving permit to do so from the Office of the
City Clerk.
   B.   Permit Fee: The fee for a permit to move such house or structure shall
be twenty dollars ($20.00). In the event it is necessary to move utility lines,
poles, signs or other structures to facilitate the move, the cost therefor will
be paid by the applicant, in addition to the normal fee.
   C.   Bond Or Cash Deposit: No permit shall be issued to any person to move a
house or structure unless the person has in effect a bond or a cash deposit
with the City Clerk in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), conditioned
that the mover will indemnify the owners of any property (public or private,
including pavement, curbs, etc.) for any damage thereto resulting from the
moving of any house or structure, and holding the City harmless from liability
for any such damage.
   D.   Determination Of Route; Rules For Moving: It shall be the duty of the
building inspector to approve or determine the route that may be used and the
potential for damage, if any, to any property; such rules and regulations as
are necessary to promote an effective move and the protection of persons and
property may also be prescribed by the City Manager. The mover shall erect all
necessary danger signals during the operation of moving.
   E.   House Mover Responsible For Damage: Any person moving any house or any
other structure on or over any street or alley, shall be liable (personally and
upon bond) for any damage to trees, public property, persons or any matter
whatsoever resulting from such moving. This shall not be construed to authorize
any person to cut or trim any trees, or commit any injury to any public or
private property which cannot be immediately restored to its former condition;
no permit shall authorize any moving under any conditions which will promote
such damage. (2007 Code § 4-21)
10-4-6: PAVEMENT CUTTING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any public utility contractor, firm or other person
desiring to bore or cut into, or in any manner cross, any public street, alley,
sidewalk or public ground of any sort, whether paved, graveled, bricked,
blacktopped or not for any purpose whatever, shall first obtain a pavement
cutting permit from the City Clerk to cross or open such street, alley,
sidewalk or ground. (Exception to this requirement will be made only when a
bona fide emergency exists. In such case, the Municipal building inspector, the
City Clerk or the City Manager shall be notified at the earliest practical
time.)
   B.   Permit Fees: The fees for such permits shall be:
      1.   Excavation in concrete pavement or surface: Thirty dollars ($30.00)
(minimum) plus fifteen dollars ($15.00) per square yard.
      2.   Excavation in brick, asphalt or oil mat pavement or surface: Twenty
dollars ($20.00) (minimum) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per square yard.
      3.   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: Five
dollars ($5.00) (minimum) plus one dollar ($1.00) per square yard.
      4.   Modification or removal of curb or curbing: Ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   Construction Requirements: On all-weather streets or alleys with
bituminous or concrete surface, boring will be required without exception;
cutting or ditching will be allowed on all streets or alleys with dirt or
gravel surface. If for any reason these requirements cannot be complied with,
cutting of a street will be allowed, but shall require the street surface to be
replaced with a minimum of six inches (6") of concrete, twenty four inches
(24") wider than the cut or the ditch.
   D.   Restoration Of Surface: When any street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground has been crossed for the purposes of laying gas, water or sewage pipe,
or for any other purpose, the surface will be restored with similar material
and workmanship to that existing in the street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground before the same was torn up; all work shall be completed and refilled to
the satisfaction of the Municipal building inspector, or a representative, and
approval issued as previously stated.
   E.   Materials For Backfill: Materials used to backfill any opening in a
street or alley shall be placed in lifts not to exceed ten inches (10"), and
each lift shall be tamped either mechanically or by hand to ninety five percent
(95%) compaction. Six inches (6") of crushed aggregate base material shall be
used to fill to the existing surface on all streets and alleys. Openings in
concrete surfaces shall be filled with base material to within four inches (4")
of the bottom of the slab. The remaining four inches (4") of the opening shall
be filled with sand to the bottom of the concrete slab to be replaced. On major
streets, the thickness of crushed aggregate base material required may vary.
   F.   Lights And Barricades Required: In all cases where the surface of the
street, alley, sidewalk or public ground is disturbed, the party so cutting
into the opening shall place lights at night and maintain suitable barricades
at all times to protect persons from danger.
   G.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: Should any person, firm, corporation,
contractor or franchise holder with the City fail to comply, said party shall
be summoned before the City Commission for removal of their license or
franchise. Any person not licensed with the City who fails to comply, shall be
fined and required to pay costs of repair plus labor. (2007 Code § 4-22)
10-4-7: DITCHING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to initiate any ditching operation involving any public easement,
right-of-way, place, area or building within the City without first obtaining a
ditching permit from the Office of the City Clerk; said permit shall first be
approved by the City Manager.
   B.   Permit Fee: The fee for such permit shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   C.   Conditions For Permit Issuance: Such permit shall be issued only if the
applicant meets the following conditions:
      1.   The applicant shall provide a map of the proposed project to the
Mayor prior to initiating work; said map shall show, or have placed upon it,
all Municipal utility line locations in the project area, and all areas of
public easement, rights-of- way or places, areas or buildings potentially
affected by the proposed project.
      2.   The applicant shall provide written proof that there is full
coordination with all other applicable utility companies (telephone, electric,
gas and CATV) and complete awareness of the locations of all such lines.
      3.   The applicant shall provide a surety bond (or cash deposit),
suitable to the City as to dollar amount and form, to ensure that any damage
will be repaired; upon completion of the project, the City will review any
damage claims and make appropriate arrangements.
      4.   The applicant shall agree, in writing, to maintain proper
safeguards, particularly at night.
   D.   Violations: Violation of any of these provisions shall be grounds for
revocation of the permit at any time. (2007 Code § 4-23)
10-4-8: PERMITS FOR PIPES ACROSS STREETS:
   A.   Permit Required: Oil and gas companies, and other persons, firms and
corporations not operating pursuant to a franchise granted by the Municipality
or not operating pursuant to a license or permit granted by the State
Corporation Commission, shall secure a permit from the Office of the City Clerk
before placing, installing, laying, constructing, operating or maintaining any
pipe, cable, wire, conduit or line across, over, under, along, through or upon
any street, alley, public way or public place within the corporate limits of
the City; said permit shall first be approved by the City Manager.
   B.   Contents Of Application: The application for the permit shall specify:
      1.   The location of the pipe, cable, wire conduit or line; and
      2.   The privileges and proposed terms which the applicant desires to
secure from the City and to exercise.
   C.   Permit Revocation; Reasons: If the permit is granted, the City Manager
will grant it on written terms which are mutually agreeable. The City Manager
may revoke said permit after adequate opportunity for a public hearing, for any
of the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to abide by the terms on which the permit was granted;
      2.   Violation of State law or Municipal ordinances; or
      3.   Failure to provide for the protection of the public peace, health,
safety or welfare.
   D.   Payment Of Fees: The applicant shall pay such fees for such permit and
for its periodic renewal, as the City Commission may establish by motion.
   E.   Authority To Refuse Renewal Of Permit: The City Manager may refuse to
renew a permit.
   F.   Bond Required: The City Commission may require an applicant to provide
a bond for the protection of the City and/or the public in such sum and with
such terms as said City Commission deems desirable. When the City Commission
requires such a bond, a permit shall have no force or effect unless the
required bond is also in effect. (2007 Code § 4-24)
10-4-9: DEMOLITION PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: A demolition permit shall be required, in addition to
the regular building permit, prior to the demolition of any building or part
thereof.
   B.   Permit Fees: The fees for a permit to wreck a building within the fire
limits shall be six dollars ($6.00) for a one story building and four dollars
($4.00) for each additional story. If outside the fire limits, the fees shall
be four dollars ($4.00) and two dollars ($2.00), respectively.
   C.   Application Information: Application for permits to wreck or demolish
any building or part thereof shall be accompanied by a statement in writing by
the owner or agent, giving the full name and residence of each of the owners of
the building to be demolished, the name and address of the person who is to do
the work and any other information which may be required.
   D.   Taking Down Walls And Materials:
      1.   In no case shall any wall be taken down more than one story in
advance of any other wall.
      2.   All material and debris shall be immediately lowered to the ground
and shall not be placed on the floors of the building. (2007 Code § 4-25)
10-4-10: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS STATE PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensation or
utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such
gas, unless such person has complied and complies with, all provisions of the
State law and local ordinances relating thereto, and has any permit which may
be required by State law. No storage of liquefied petroleum gas, except by
retail customers, in reasonable amounts, strictly intended for their own use,
shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the City. (2007 Code § 4-26)
10-4-11: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR RESTORATION WORK:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of issuing a Certificate of Appropriateness are to
make all concerned parties aware that all required submittals and approvals
have been completed and that the proper permit may be issued for the start of
restoration work.
   B.   Certificate Required: The Certificate of Appropriateness is required
before a building permit is issued for any of the following to occur in a
Historic District or on a locally designated historic landmark or historic
site:
      1.   Demolition of property;
      2.   Moving of property;
      3.   Material change(s) such as exterior reconstruction, alteration or
color changes other than those approved in the original application; or
      4.   Building of new structures on property.
   C.   Application Requirements; Fee: The following procedures shall be used
for applications:
      1.   A ten dollar ($10.00) filing fee shall be collected by the Office of
the City Clerk.
      2.   The applicant shall submit for review any sketches, plans, drawings,
photos or other information which would clearly show the Preservation
Commission what changes will be made.
      3.   The application shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      4.   The Certificate of Appropriateness shall be reviewed by the
Preservation Commission in generally the same manner as a rezoning application
and request.
      5.   If work authorized by a Certificate of Appropriateness is not begun
within sixty (60) days, the Certificate of Appropriateness shall expire and
reapplication must be made, unless a 30-day extension is granted by the
Preservation Commission; no more than two (2) extensions may be permitted on
one project. (2007 Code § 4-27)
10-4-12: BUILDING INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   All building review, management, and inspection services within the
City limits of the City of Waurika will be subject to review and inspection
fees (Building Inspection Fee Schedule), including residential building plan
review and inspections, commercial construction plan review and inspections,
alteration plan review and inspections, new construction and additions plan
review and inspections, accessibility plan review and inspections, fire code
review and inspections, planning and zoning services, management, and
inspections, and fast track plan review services.
   B.   City personnel, subject to direction as the Board of City Commissioners
may give by motion or resolution, may establish, reduce or increase the
building inspection fee schedule. (Ord. 03092020-02, 3-9-2020)
CHAPTER 5
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
10-5-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Criteria For Historic Designation
10-5-4: Procedures For Historic Designation
10-5-5: Criteria For Evaluation Of Proposed Designations
10-5-6: Voluntary Restrictive Covenants
10-5-7: General Design Review Policies
10-5-8: Specific Design Review Criteria
10-5-9: Design Review Process; Certificates And Clearances
10-5-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is designed to allow for the designation, and subsequent
protection of, properties which have been determined to be architecturally,
archaeologically, culturally or historically significant to the City, and to
allow interested parties the opportunity to arrange for the preservation of
such properties.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are to:
      1.   Strengthen the City's economic base through stimulation of
structural and district conservation, reuse and revitalization;
      2.   Stabilize and preserve property values;
      3.   Promote harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the community, through the integration of the preservation and comprehensive
planning processes within the City;
      4.   Safeguard the cultural and architectural heritage of the City;
      5.   Promote the designation of historic properties and landmarks and the
creation of Historic Districts for the educational, cultural, economic and
general welfare of the public; and
      6.   Enhance the environmental quality of neighborhoods. (2007 Code § 4-
80)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: The approval issued by the City's Preservation
Commission for: a) alterations of historic properties designated under this
chapter or the City's Zoning Ordinance; b) demolition of such properties; c)
new construction in a district designated under said ordinances as historic; or
d) projects that may impact upon a designated historic property or Historic
District 1 .
CHIEF ELECTED LOCAL OFFICIAL: The Mayor of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
CITY COMMISSION: The Governing Body of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma; said body
may also be known as, or called, the "City Commission" or the "City Council".
HISTORIC DISTRICT: A geographically definable area with a concentration or
linkage of significant sites, buildings, structures or monuments that are
unified historically, architecturally, archaeologically or culturally.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: An individual structure, building, site or monument which
contributes to the historical, architectural, archeological and/or cultural
heritage of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
LOCAL LEGISLATION: This Code, statutes, ordinances, etc., which create the
Preservation Commission and comprehensively set forth its functions,
responsibilities, membership and other implementation provisions.
NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES: The national list of districts, sites,
buildings, structures and objects significant in American history,
architecture, archeology, engineering and culture, maintained by the Secretary
of the Interior under authority of the National Preservation Act, as amended.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work not requiring a building permit or
Certificate of Appropriateness, where the purpose is to stabilize and not
noticeably alter the property's exterior appearance. Any work not satisfying
the above requirements shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair
(i.e., painting previously unpainted brick).
PRESERVATION: Shall have any or all of the following meanings:
Adaptive Use: Restrained alteration to accommodate uses for which the property
was not originally constructed, but in such a way as to maintain the general
significant characteristics.
Conservation: Sustained use and appearance essentially in the property's
existing state.
Protection: Security of a property as it exists primarily through the
establishment of the mechanisms of this title.
Reconstruction: Process of recreation or reproduction by new construction, all
or parts of the form and detail of a vanished resource, as it appeared at a
specific period in time.
Rehabilitation: Process of returning a property to a state of efficiency or
soundness by repair or alteration, designed to encourage its continued use, but
without noticeably changing its exterior.
Restoration: Process of accurately recovering all or part of the form and
detail of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of
time, by means of removal of later work and replacement of earlier work.
Stabilization: Process of applying measures designed to halt deterioration and
to establish the structural soundness of an unsafe or deteriorated property,
while maintaining the essential form as it presently exists, without noticeably
changing the exterior appearance.
PRESERVATION COMMISSION: The Waurika, Oklahoma, Preservation Commission, with
the powers and duties established in this chapter and in this Code.
SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS: Any or all of the following:
   A.   Cultural:
      1. Has noteworthy character, interest or value as part of the development
of the community, State or Nation; or
      2. Is associated with a noteworthy personality or past development; or
      3. Is the site of a noteworthy social, economic or political event.
   B.   Architectural:
      1. Exemplifies a distinctive artistic style or engineering specimen; or
      2. Represents the work of a particular designer, architect or contractor
whose work has influenced the community or Nation; or
      3. Contains elements of design, materials, detail, style or craftsmanship
unique to the past; or
      4. Is a distinctive part of, or related to a part of, a distinctive area
that should be preserved; or
      5. Represents a visual and established feature of a neighborhood, the
community or the skyline due to its location or physical features.
   C.   Archeological:
      1. Has yielded information, or is likely to yield information (based on
physical evidence), important to history or prehistory; or
      2. Is part of, or is related to, a distinctive geographical area which
should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on a cultural,
historical or architectural context.
   D.   Historical: Represents events of the past, important to the development
of the area, community, State or Nation.
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER (SHPO): The official within the State of
Oklahoma who has been delegated and appointed by the Governor to administer the
Historic Preservation Program in the State. (2007 Code § 4-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-4-11 of this title.
10-5-3: CRITERIA FOR HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
Historic landmark, historic site or Historic District status may be considered
for any natural or improved site or any area of particular historic,
architectural or cultural significance which:
   A.   Exemplifies or reflects the broad cultural, political, economic and
social history of the Nation, State or the City; or
   B.   Is identified with historic persons or with important events in
National, State or local history; or
   C.   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type
inherently valuable for the study of a period, style or method of construction
or of indigenous materials or craftsmanship; or
   D.   Is respective of the notable work of a landscape architect, contractor,
master builder, City planner, designer or architect whose work influenced a
particular age or period of development in the Nation, State, region or local
area. (2007 Code § 4-83)
10-5-4: PROCEDURES FOR HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
   A.   The Preservation Commission shall contact all owner(s) of real property
(excluding mineral rights) within the area of a proposed Historic District or
within three hundred feet (300') of any affected historic landmark or site, in
order to inform them of the subject area, time, date and place of the public
hearing(s) at which historic designation will be discussed; said notice shall
be mailed not less than twenty (20) days prior to the hearing of the
Preservation Commission, and shall also contain notices of the time, date and
place of the subsequent City Commission meeting at which final action is
proposed to be taken.
   B.   A legal notice, indicating the nature of the hearing, the area
involved, and the time, date and place of the hearing, shall be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
Preservation Commission's public hearing; said notice shall also contain the
time, date and place of the subsequent City Commission meeting at which final
action is proposed to take place.
   C.   Upon mailing of notification to the property owners within a proposed
Historic District or involving a historic structure or historic landmark, no
building permits will be issued nor will any use changes be granted until after
the City Commission approves or rejects the designation proposal for the
affected area or site.
   D.   A quorum of the Preservation Commission shall conduct the hearing. All
interested parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to express their
opinions regarding the proposed designation(s). Said commission may establish
reasonable limits on the length of individual presentations. A record of the
hearing shall be made. The Preservation Commission's records may include the
name and address of each speaker, the organization or person represented (if
any), whether or not such person is an owner or holder of some interest in the
affected property or represents such owner or holder, and a summary of the
relevant portions of each statement.
   E.   Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing, the Preservation Commission
shall act upon the proposed designation. Said commission may approve, reject or
modify any proposal without instituting a new designation process. If said
commission fails to act within fifteen (15) days, the designation proposal
shall be forwarded to the City Commission for final action.
   F.   Upon receipt of the proposal by the City Commission, they may designate
the recommended area as a Historic District, historic structure or historic
landmark, or reject or modify the proposal.
   G.   Approval of the City Commission shall be manifested by approval of an
ordinance officially designating the site, landmark or district as historic; if
a district is to be designated, the ordinance shall be an amendment (Overlay
Zone) to the Zoning Ordinance, in accordance therewith. (2007 Code § 4-84)
10-5-5: CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION OF PROPOSED DESIGNATIONS:
The following criteria shall be used in the evaluation of proposed historic
landmarks, historic sites or Historic Districts:
   A.   Character, interest or value as a part of the development, heritage or
cultural characteristics of the community, State of Oklahoma, Nation or other
societies; or
   B.   Location of the site of a notable historical event; or
   C.   Identification with a person or persons who contributed notably to the
cultural development of the community, State, Nation or society; or
   D.   Relationship to properties which are significant and preserved, or
which are eligible for preservation; or
   E.   Embodiment of distinctive elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship related to a uniqueness to the area, or the related
distinctiveness of a craftsman, master builder or architect, or a style or
innovation; or
   F.   Archeological value, in the sense that the site has, has produced, or
can be expected to yield, based on physical evidence, information affecting
knowledge of history or prehistory; or
   G.   Value as an aspect of community sentiment or public pride; or
   H.   An established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, the
community or the skyline owing to its unique location or singular physical
characteristics. (2007 Code § 4-85)
10-5-6: VOLUNTARY RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
The owner of any historic landmark or historic site may, at any time following
such designation of this property, enter into a restrictive covenant on the
subject property after negotiation with the Preservation Commission. Said
commission may assist the owner in preparing such covenant in the interest of
preserving the historic landmark or historic site, and the owner shall record
such covenant in the Office of the County Clerk and shall notify the City Clerk
of such covenant and the conditions thereof. If the covenant involves any
assumption of responsibility by the City, the City Commission shall first
review and approve the document, indicating approval by the Mayor's signature
thereon. (2007 Code § 4-86)
10-5-7: GENERAL DESIGN REVIEW POLICIES:
   A.   The Preservation Commission shall be charged with the responsibility
for reviewing requests for building and demolition permits for designated
historic structures or within any area designated as a Historic District, and
issuing or denying Certificates of Appropriateness for applicable types of such
requests. It is the purpose of this section to specify for commission members
policies and criteria that they shall follow in reaching decisions on matters
relative to such changes.
   B.   Review criteria, procedural policies and consequences of decisions will
extend beyond the tenure of any Preservation Commission members. It is
essential that policies and practices be based on consistency and basic
preservation guidelines. Highest priority should go to the preservation and
restoration of significant structures (historically and architecturally) and
sites that express the unique characteristics of the particular periods in
which they were built.
   C.   The Preservation Commission shall utilize, in addition to those
criteria in section
10-5-8 of this chapter, the "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation". These standards are as follows:
Standard 1: Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use
for a property which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or
site and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose.
Standard 2: The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure or site and its environment should not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible.
Standard 3: All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as products
of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which seek to
create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
Standard 4: Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
Standard 5: Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
Standard 6: Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
Standard 7: The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage historic building materials shall not be undertaken.
Standard 8: Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
Standard 9: Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
Standard 10: Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to structures
shall be done in such a manner that if such additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired. (2007 Code § 4-87)
10-5-8: SPECIFIC DESIGN REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   The purpose of historic/architectural design review is to protect
property values and to promote the public welfare by promoting new construction
and rehabilitation or alteration of buildings, in the proper proportions, and
in general and reasonable harmony with the existing buildings in the
surrounding area; a supplemental purpose is to encourage design which is
compatible with the community's historic architecture.
   B.   In such instances where historic/architectural design review is
required, the procedure for such review will commence following application for
a building permit. Upon receipt of said application, under conditions as set
forth in this chapter or for a particular zoning district, the applicant will
submit to the Municipal building inspector plans indicating accurate elevation
drawings or photographs of each facade, and sufficient detailing to indicate
materials, colors, texture, light reflecting characteristics, and special
features intended for the building. This may be supplemented by sketches as
deemed necessary by the applicant to present the intended design. Submission of
actual samples of building materials is also encouraged.
   C.   The Preservation Commission shall utilize the following specific
criteria (in addition to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation) in reaching decisions on proposals presented for review. These
criteria permit the use of modern fabrics, but do not encourage imitation or
fake facades; they encourage the designers of new buildings or alterations to
existing structures to consider the relationship of the proposal to that of the
total character of the streetscape or of any Historic District. If the proposal
involves an established Historic Zoning District, provisions and procedures of
the appropriate zoning district must also be met and followed.
      1.   Architectural Details: Architectural details must be considered with
respect to their relationships to the structure in question and those adjacent
(details may include, but are not limited to, cornices, lintels, arches,
quoins, balustrades and iron work, chimneys, etc.).
      2.   Color: The existence of a predominant color scheme, whether natural
or colored by time, must be considered in work on a new or restored structure
or area.
      3.   Directional Expression: Structural shape, openings or architectural
details that provide directional expression (i.e., a predominantly vertical,
horizontal or other directional character to the buildings' front facades) must
be considered.
      4.   Entrances And Porch Projections: Entrances, doors, porches and other
projections must relate to the sidewalk areas.
      5.   Front Facades: Building fronts must relate to each other, in both
width and height.
      6.   Height: As a general rule, new buildings or modifications to
existing ones should be the height of within ten percent (10%) of the average
height of existing adjacent buildings.
      7.   Ground Cover: If there exists a pattern or predominance in the area,
with respect to the use of brick pavers, cobblestones, granite blocks or other
materials, it must receive priority consideration for continuance.
      8.   Landscaping: A predominance of a specific quality and quantity of
landscaping must be considered, although emphasis shall be with the continuity
of such landscaping.
      9.   Materials: The predominant materials utilized, such as brick, stone,
stucco or wood siding on other adjacent or surrounding structures, should
relate to those used on the new or restored structure or area.
      10.   Openings: Windows and doors must relate to each other, in each
building and with other windows and doors in adjacent buildings.
      11.   Roof Shapes: Buildings must have compatible roof shapes.
      12.   Scale: The size of units of construction and architectural detail
must relate to the human scale. Consideration must also be given to relating
building mass to open space. The predominant element of scale may be brick or
stone units, window or door openings, porches or balconies, etc.
      13.   Spacing: Buildings and spaces must create a recurrent pattern that
is relatively ordered.
      14.   Textures: The area's predominant textures, whether they are smooth
(such as smooth stucco) or rough (such as brick with tooled joints, or
horizontal wood siding or other textures) must relate to those used on the new
or restored structure or area.
      15.   Walls Of Continuity: Physical ingredients, such as brick walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, building facades, or
combinations of these, must be continued, to allow cohesive walls of enclosure
along the street. (2007 Code § 4-88)
10-5-9: DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS; CERTIFICATES AND CLEARANCES:
   A.   All requests for building permits for structures within a Historic
District and for those designated as historic landmarks or historic sites must
first receive a Certificate of Appropriateness and, therefore, shall be
referred to the Preservation Commission, which shall have a specified period of
time to review each request.
   B.   The Certificate of Appropriateness is required before a building permit
is issued for any work to occur in a Historic District or on a designated
historic landmark or historic site.
   C.   The commission may use such time to discuss the proposed changes with
the owner of the structure in question and may permit the Municipal building
inspector to issue the building permit before such period has expired;
following the review, the commission shall issue or deny issuance of, a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the reviewed work.
   D.   This shall not prohibit the granting of a building permit by the
Municipal building inspector after such period has expired, if the commission
has not made a decision on the proposal. (2007 Code § 4-89)
CHAPTER 6
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Building Permit Requirements
10-6-3: Insurance Required
10-6-4: Construction And Maintenance Requirements
10-6-5: System Nonoperational; Abandonment
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions, as are used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
shown below:
OVER SPEED CONTROL: A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation below
the design limits of the Wind Energy Conversion System.
SITE: The plot of land where the Wind Energy Conversion System is to be placed.
The site could be publicly or privately owned (by an individual or a group of
individuals controlling single or adjacent properties).
SWEPT AREA: The largest area of the Wind Energy Conversion System which
extracts energy from the wind stream. In a conventional propeller type Wind
Energy Conversion System, there is a direct relationship between swept area and
the rotor diameter.
TOTAL HEIGHT: The height of the tower and the farthest vertical extension of
the Wind Energy Conversion System.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): A machine that converts the kinetic
energy in the wind into a usable form (commonly known as a wind turbine or
windmill). The Wind Energy Conversion System includes all parts of the system,
and shall be considered as a structure. (2007 Code § 4-108)
10-6-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building permit applications 1  for a Wind Energy Conversion System
shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn in sufficient detail to clearly
describe the following:
      1.   Property lines and physical dimensions of the site;
      2.   Location, approximate dimensions and types of major existing
structures and uses on the site;
      3.   Location and elevation of the proposed Wind Energy Conversion
System;
      4.   Location of all aboveground utility lines on site or within a
distance radius equal to the total height of the Wind Energy Conversion System;
      5.   Location and size of structures and trees over thirty five feet
(35') in height, which are within a five hundred foot (500') radius of the
proposed Wind Energy Conversion System; for purposes of this requirement,
electrical transmission and distribution lines, antennas and slender or open
lattice towers are not considered structures; and
      6.   The zoning designation of immediate and adjacent sites.
   B.   Before a building permit may be issued, all requirements of this
chapter must be met. This chapter covers those Wind Energy Conversion Systems
whose swept area is one thousand (1,000) square feet or less; for conventional
propeller Wind Energy Conversion Systems, this would be approximately thirty
five feet (35') or less in diameter. (Nonelectrical windmills used for pumping
water may be exempted from the remaining provisions of this chapter.)
   C.   Building permit applications shall be accompanied by standard drawings
of the structural components of the Wind Energy Conversion System, including
support structure, tower, base and footings. Drawings and any necessary
calculations shall be certified in writing by a registered professional
engineer or manufacturer's representative, to show that the system complies
with the adopted Building Code. (This certification would normally be supplied
by the manufacturer.) Where the structural components or installation vary from
the standard design or specification, the proposed modifications shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer for compliance with the
structural design provisions of the adopted Building Code.
   D.   Building permit applications shall be accompanied by a line drawing
identifying the electrical components of the system to be installed, in
sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of installation
conforms to the adopted Electrical Code. The application shall include a
statement from a registered professional engineer indicating that the
electrical system conforms with good engineering practices and complies with
said Electrical Code. (This certification would normally be supplied by the
manufacturer.) All equipment and materials shall be used or installed in
accordance with such drawings and diagrams. Where the electrical components of
an installation vary from the standard design or specifications, the proposed
modifications shall be reviewed and certified by a registered professional
engineer for compliance with the requirements of said Electrical Code and good
engineering practices. (2007 Code § 4-108)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-4-1 of this title.
10-6-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The applicant, owner, lessee or assignee shall maintain a current insurance
policy which will cover installation and operation of the Wind Energy
Conversion System at all times. Said policy shall provide a minimum of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property and personal liability
coverage. (2007 Code § 4-108; amd. 2019 Code)
10-6-4: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each Wind Energy Conversion System must be equipped with both manual
and automatic controls to limit the rotational speed of the blade below the
design limits of the rotor. The application must include a statement by a
registered professional engineer certifying that the rotor and over speed
controls have been designed and fabricated for the proposed use in accordance
with good engineering practices. The engineer should also certify the
structural compatibility of possible towers with available rotors. (This
certification would normally be supplied by the manufacturer.)
   B.   Anchor points for guy wires for the Wind Energy Conversion System tower
shall be located within property lines and not on or across any aboveground
electric transmission or distribution lines. The point of ground attachment for
the guy wires shall be enclosed by a fence six feet (6') high, or the Wind
Energy Conversion System shall be set back from the property line or site
parameters the total height of the Wind Energy Conversion System.
   C.   Towers should have either a tower climbing apparatus located no closer
than twelve feet (12') from the ground, a locked anticlimb device installed on
the tower, or the tower shall be completely enclosed by a locked, protective
fence at least six feet (6') high.
   D.   The Wind Energy Conversion System shall meet the requirements of any
existing Municipal noise regulations.
   E.   The Wind Energy Conversion System shall be operated such that no
disruptive electromagnetic interference is caused. If it has been demonstrated
to the Municipal building inspector that a Wind Energy Conversion System is
causing harmful interference, the operator shall be required to promptly
mitigate the harmful interference.
   F.   At least one sign shall be posted at the base of the tower warning of
electrical shock or high voltage.
   G.   The minimum height of the lowest part of the Wind Energy Conversion
System shall be thirty feet (30') above the highest existing major structure or
any tree within a two hundred fifty foot (250') radius. For purposes of this
requirement, electrical transmission and distribution lines, antennas and
slender or open lattice towers are not considered structures.
   H.   The Wind Energy Conversion System shall be located such that the
farthest extension of the apparatus does not cross any site lines.
   I.   For Wind Energy Conversion Systems which will be interconnected to a
utility grid, no wind turbine shall be installed until evidence has been given
that the utility company has been notified in writing. (2007 Code § 4-108)
10-6-5: SYSTEM NONOPERATIONAL; ABANDONMENT:
If a Wind Energy Conversion System is not maintained in operational condition
for a period of one year and poses a potential safety hazard, the owner or
operator shall take expeditious action to remedy the situation. If the City
determines that the Wind Energy Conversion System has been abandoned and poses
a safety hazard, the system shall be removed within forty five (45) days of
written notice to the owner or operator of the system. (2007 Code § 4-108)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED, MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: Freestanding Mobile Homes
10-7-4: Nonresidential Mobile Homes Or Trailers
10-7-5: Minimum Housing Regulations For Mobile And Manufactured Homes
10-7-6: Subdivisions
10-7-7: Treatment Of Modular Housing
10-7-8: Penalty
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for areas within
the corporate boundaries of the City wherein the location and development of
manufactured housing, mobile homes, mobile home parks, trailer parks,
manufactured and mobile home subdivisions and modular housing units or
additions may be safely continued and encouraged.
   B.   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured housing and
mobile home parks and subdivisions, trailer parks and modular housing units and
additions. (2007 Code § 10-1)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, words and phrases shall
have the meanings indicated hereinbelow:
BUFFER PLANTING STRIP: A visual screening facility, consisting of not less than
one row of shrubbery spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart, which will
grow to a height of not less than twelve feet (12') in less than five (5)
years, under normal circumstances; such a strip may, as an alternative, consist
of an earthen berm or solid fencing, or any combination of earthen berm,
fencing and/or landscaping, all of which shall total at least eight feet (8')
in height.
CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR: The City building inspector of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, or an authorized agent.
GREENBELT PLANTING STRIP: A landscaped area, not less than twenty feet (20') in
width, used along all subdivision boundaries; such greenbelt planting strip
shall be composed of: a) one row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced
not more than forty feet (40') apart, b) not less than three (3) rows of
shrubs, spaced not more than thirty feet (30') apart, and c) not less than
three (3) rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart, all of
which shrubs must eventually be capable of growing to at least four feet (4')
to six feet (6') in height.
HEALTH OFFICIAL: The City building inspector or the legally designated Health
Authority of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma (or an authorized representative),
or the authorized representative of the Jefferson County Health Department or
the State Department of Health.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. The three (3)
types of manufactured housing are defined as meeting all of the requirements
listed below, and are to be considered separate from mobile or modular housing:
   A.   Type I manufactured housing shall:
      1. Have more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of occupied space in a
typically double section or larger multi-section unit, with a minimum width of
twenty feet (20');
      2. Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the ground,
in accordance with the City's Foundation Code or other adopted foundation
requirements, and the manufacturer's specifications;
      3. Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with City
approved installation standards;
      4. Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      5. Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate City
codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
      6. Have siding material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      7. Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      8. Have a one hundred (100) square foot (minimum) attached, covered and/
or enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard surfaced;
      9. Have a legitimate front and rear door; and
      10. Have a minimum eave width of six inches (6").
   B.   Type II manufactured housing shall:
      1. Have more than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double, expanded or multi-section unit (including those with
add-a-room units);
      2. Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the ground,
in accordance with the City's Foundation Code or other adopted foundation
standards, and the manufacturer's specifications;
      3. Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with City
approved installation standards;
      4. Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      5. Have utilities connected in accordance with appropriate City codes and
the manufacturer's specifications;
      6. Have siding material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      7. Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      8. Have a one hundred (100) square foot (minimum) attached, covered and/
or enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard surfaced;
      9. Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
      10. Have a minimum eave width of six inches (6").
   C.   Type III manufactured housing shall:
      1. Have more than four hundred (400) square feet of occupied space, in a
single, double, expanded or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room
units);
      2. Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with Municipally
approved installation standards;
      3. Be enclosed with foundation siding or skirting, in accordance with
Municipally approved installation standards;
      4. Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications and the City's appropriate, adopted code; and
      5. Have utilities connected, in accordance with appropriate City
requirements and the manufacturer's specifications.
MOBILE HOME: Any single-family dwelling designed for transportation on streets
and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers (both highway
and rail) and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, connection to
utilities and similar operations.
MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT: Any mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of this chapter, a dependent mobile home shall
be considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
MOBILE HOME, FREESTANDING: The term "freestanding mobile home or travel
trailer" shall mean any mobile home or travel trailer not located in a mobile
home park or travel trailer park respectively, licensed by the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma, or in an approved mobile home subdivision.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: Any plot of ground within a mobile home park or subdivision
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home, and not located on a mobile
home sales lot.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision designed and intended for residential
use, where residence is in mobile homes or manufactured housing exclusively,
and lots are sold for occupancy.
MODULAR HOME: Any factory fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation; the term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated sub-elements incorporated
into a structure at the site, nor does it include any type of "manufactured
housing", as defined herein; any "modular home" must meet United States
Government "modular home" certification standards 1 .
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics of
either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
PARK: A mobile home and/or travel trailer park.
PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM: Any such system built and owned by, or dedicated
to and accepted by, or operated in cooperation with the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma; all other such systems shall be deemed private systems.
SERVICE BUILDING: Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities.
SUBDIVISION: A manufactured housing or mobile home subdivision, unless
otherwise indicated.
TRAVEL TRAILER: All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation use. For purposes of this chapter, a "dependent mobile home" shall be
considered the same as a travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more travel
trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE: A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer. (2007 Code § 10-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-7-7 of this chapter.
10-7-3: FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   No freestanding mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted within
the corporate limits of the City unless it is being offered for sale or parked
for storage, or located within an appropriate zoning district which permits
such freestanding location.
   B.   Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular commercial
mobile home or travel trailer sales lots, each such freestanding mobile home or
travel trailer offered for sale must be clearly marked as such, and shall not
be occupied for either living or sleeping purpose.
   C.   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than
one travel trailer on a residential lot; such travel trailer shall not be
stored in any required front or side yard or public utility easement, nor shall
such travel trailer project beyond the front of any building. (2007 Code § 10-
3)
10-7-4: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILERS:
   A.   Nonresidential mobile homes or trailers shall not be permitted in the
City unless a temporary permit for operation, valid for a period of twelve (12)
months, is issued by the City building inspector; such permit shall specify the
permitted use of the nonresidential mobile home or trailer, the location of
such operation and the termination date of the permit, and shall only be issued
under terms of this Code and the adopted Zoning Ordinance of the City.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for a use which would violate any local,
State or Federal ordinance, law or regulation.
   C.   An annual fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged for each
nonresidential mobile home or trailer permit.
   D.   Operation of nonresidential mobile homes or trailers by contractors or
construction projects for which building permits have been issued or which are
otherwise approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project.
   E.   This section shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile home or trailer within the
corporate limits of the City in conflict with any adopted Zoning Ordinance of
the City. (2007 Code § 10-4)
10-7-5: MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Every manufactured house or mobile home located in either a mobile home
park, a mobile home subdivision or as a free- standing home, shall meet the
provisions of the adopted Housing Code of the City, except as otherwise
provided in this section, or as may be otherwise provided in other provisions
of this Code.
   B.   Every manufactured or mobile home shall contain the following minimum
gross floor area of habitable space:
      1.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for one or two (2) occupants;
      2.   One hundred (100) additional square feet for the third occupant; and
      3.   Seventy five (75) square feet additional for each additional
occupant thereafter.
   C.   Habitable space in a mobile or manufactured home shall have a minimum
ceiling height of seven feet (7') over fifty percent (50%) of the floor area;
the floor area where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not
be considered in computing minimum gross floor area.
   D.   A mobile or manufactured home shall have a safe and unobstructed
primary exit and an emergency exit located away from the primary exit.
   E.   Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at least sixty (60)
square feet of floor space, if used by more than one person, and at least forty
(40) square feet if used by one person.
   F.   1. Mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes shall be
required to have running water, a flush toilet, and either a bathtub or shower.
      2.   Dependent manufactured or mobile homes shall not be required to have
a flush toilet, bath or shower.
   G.   The Housing Code shall not apply to travel trailers insofar as floor
area, flush toilet, bath or shower ceiling height is concerned. (2007 Code §
10-5; amd. 2019 Code)
10-7-6: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Manufactured housing and mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the
adopted Subdivision Regulations Ordinance and Zoning Ordinance of the City,
except as otherwise provided herein. (2007 Code § 10-50; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The minimum size of such a subdivision shall be five (5) acres.
   C.   No residences except mobile and/or manufactured homes shall be
permitted in such a subdivision.
   D.   Minimum effective lot widths in said subdivision shall be fifty feet
(50'), measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be five
thousand (5,000) square feet, consistent with the adopted Zoning Ordinance;
provided, that at least a five foot (5') side yard shall be provided on each
lot beyond any home and additions thereto; and further provided, that in areas
not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional lot area shall be
determined by the health official on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer
service. The effective lot width of a mobile or manufactured home lot shall be
determined by the health official on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer
service. The effective lot width of a mobile or manufactured home lot shall be
determined, for interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from
one diagonal side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurement shall
be made at right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line, or an extension thereof.
   E.   Side lines of lots in said subdivisions need not be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   F.   Regardless of the effective lot width, said subdivision lots must abut
a public street for at least twenty five feet (25').
   G.   All such subdivisions, except those developed under Low Density
Residential Zoning District standards, shall have a green belt planting strip
as defined herein. (2007 Code § 10-50)
10-7-7: TREATMENT OF MODULAR HOUSING:
   A.   Manufactured or mobile housing shall be considered as permanent site or
modular housing only when it meets the following (Federal) certification
criteria:
      1.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed only
for erection or installation on a site built permanent foundation. A "site
built permanent foundation" is a system of supports, including piers, either
partially or entirely below grade, which is:
         a.   Capable of transferring all loads imposed upon the structure into
soil or bedrock without failure;
         b.   Placed at an adequate depth below grade to prevent frost damage;
and
         c.   Constructed of concrete, steel, treated lumber or grouted
masonry.
      2.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is not designed to
be moved once erected or installed on a site built permanent foundation.
      3.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed and
manufactured to comply with the City's adopted Building Code, or equivalent.
      4.   The manufacturer must certify that, to the manufacturer's knowledge,
this structure is not intended to be used other than on a site built permanent
foundation.
   B.   Such certification shall be proof of the housing unit's status as a
"modular" unit; without such certification, any manufactured housing unit shall
be considered a "mobile home", and treated as such for purposes of regulation.
(2007 Code § 10-70)
10-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2007 Code § 10-100)
ARTICLE A. MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND
TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Permit Requirements; Procedures; Fees
10-7A-2: Inspection Of Parks
10-7A-3: Notices, Hearings And Orders
10-7A-4: Supervision; Posting Of Temporary Permit
10-7A-5: Location And Design Considerations For Parks
10-7A-6: Service Buildings For Travel Trailer Parks
10-7A-7: Sewage Disposal For Mobile And Manufactured Home Parks
10-7A-8: Water Supply For Parks
10-7A-9: Refuse Disposal For Parks; Insect And Rodent Control
10-7A-10: Electricity; Lighting; Fuels; Power Sources
10-7A-11: Fire Protection
10-7A-12: Alterations And Additions
10-7A-13: Registration Of Owners And Occupants
10-7A-14: Damaged Or Dilapidated Units
10-7A-15: Tie-Downs
10-7A-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES; FEES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any mobile home, manufactured housing or travel trailer park within the
corporate limits of the City unless he holds a valid permit issued annually by
the City building inspector and the health official of the City, in the name of
such person for the specific park, except that the maintenance or operation of
an existing park on the effective date hereof may be continued under a
temporary permit for such period of time and under such conditions as are
hereinafter described.
   B.   Application shall be made to the City building inspector acting jointly
with the health official, in writing, within twenty four (24) hours after
having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of, interest in or
control of, any such park. Such notice shall include the name and address of
the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such park.
   C.   Application for original permits shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The interest of the applicant in, and the location and legal
description of, the park;
      3.   A complete site plan of the park, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this article and regulations promulgated hereunder;
and
      4.   Such further information as may be requested by the health official
and/or City building inspector.
   D.   Applications for renewals of permits shall be made, in writing, by the
holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      1.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued, or the latest renewal granted; and
      2.   Other information requested by the health official and/or City
building inspector.
   E.   A complete site plan, for the purpose of obtaining a permit, shall
show:
      1.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      2.   The number, locations and size of all mobile home, manufactured home
or travel trailer spaces;
      3.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      4.   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      5.   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities; and
      6.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed, or to be constructed, within the park.
   F.   Whenever the health official and/or City building inspector finds
conditions existing in violation of this article, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, notice shall be given, in writing, to the person to whom the
permit was issued, that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time (specified in the notice), the permit will
be suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the
health official and/or City building inspector shall reinspect such park, and,
if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, the permit shall be
suspended and notice given, in writing, of such suspension to the person to
whom the permit was issued and/or the person managing, or in charge of, the
park. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation
of such park, except as may be provided hereinafter. (2007 Code § 10-20)
   G.   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended, or who has
received notice from the health official and/or City building inspector that a
permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
City Commission or the Zoning Board of Adjustment; provided, that when no
petition for such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10) days following
the day on which notice of suspension was served, such permit shall be deemed
to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day
period. (2007 Code § 10-20; amd. 2019 Code)
   H.   Mobile home and travel trailer parks in existence upon the effective
date hereof, which have concrete pads indicating the location of mobile home,
manufactured home or travel trailer spaces, need not comply with those sections
of this article which would require the moving of concrete pads. They must,
however, comply with all other requirements and any park expansion shall be in
full compliance with provisions of this article. (2007 Code § 10-20)
   I.   The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home,
manufactured home and/or travel trailer park a permit or temporary permit fee
of five dollars ($5.00) per space. The initial permit or temporary permit shall
expire no later than one year from the date of issue, unless renewed upon such
conditions as the City Commission may, by ordinance, direct. (2007 Code § 10-
20; amd. 2019 Code)
10-7A-2: INSPECTION OF PARKS:
   A.   The health official and the City building inspector are hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
mobile home, manufactured home and travel trailer parks within the City in
order to perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants
of such parks and of the general public.
   B.   The health official and City building inspector shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purposes of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
article or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   C.   The health official and City building inspector shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all homes and occupants using the
park.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile home,
manufactured home or travel trailer park, or their premises, at reasonable
times for the purpose of making, ordering or inspecting such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this article, or with
any lawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 10-21)
10-7A-3: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Whenever the health official or City building inspector determines
violations of pertinent regulations are found to exist, the licensee, permittee
or the person(s) managing, or in charge of, the park shall be notified of such
alleged violations. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this article and other pertinent regulations;
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any act it requires; and
      5.   Be served upon the owner, an agent, operator or the person in charge
of the park, as the case may require; provided, that such notice or order shall
be deemed as properly served upon said owner or agent when a copy thereof has
been sent by certified mail to the last known address. (2007 Code § 10-22)
   B.   Any person affected by any notice issued under this article or
resulting regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the City Commission, acting as a Board of Appeals, or the Zoning Board
of Adjustment; provided, that such person shall file with the City building
inspector a written request for such hearing, setting forth briefly the grounds
for such request, within ten (10) days after the day notice was served. The
filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of permits, except
in cases of orders issued under subsection E of this section. The hearing shall
be held at the next meeting for which the agenda has not been completed, or at
a later meeting if so requested by the petitioner, should the City building
inspector determine that sufficient cause for such delay exists.
   C.   After such hearing, the health official or City building inspector
shall compile the findings of the City Commission or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment as to compliance with this article and pursuant regulations, and
shall issue an order, in writing, sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the
prior notice which shall be served as provided in subsection E of this section.
Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of the park shall be
revoked.
   D.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Commission or the
Zoning Board of Adjustment may seek relief in District Court.
   E.   Whenever the health official or City building inspector finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect health, without
notice or hearing, an order may be issued reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as may be deemed necessary to
meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this article, such order shall be effective immediately.
Any person to whom such an order is directed, shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the City Commission or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, shall be afforded at the next regular meeting, even if the agenda
has been completed. The provisions of subsections C and D of this section shall
be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter. (2007 Code § 10-
22; amd. 2019 Code)
10-7A-4: SUPERVISION; POSTING OF TEMPORARY PERMIT:
   A.   The licensee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall be
charged at all times with keeping the park, its facilities and equipment in a
clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, with the licensee, for the violation of any provision of this
article, to which the license is subject.
   B.   The license shall be conspicuously posted in the offices of, or on the
premises of, the park at all times. (2007 Code § 10-23)
10-7A-5: LOCATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR PARKS:
   A.   Parks shall be of three (3) types: 1) mobile and manufactured home
parks, 2) travel trailer parks, and 3) mixed mobile/manufactured home and
travel trailer parks. No travel trailer shall be located in a mobile or
manufactured home park. No mobile or manufactured home shall be located in a
travel trailer park. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for each
type of home and for travel trailers; no mobile or manufactured home shall be
permitted in the travel trailer sector; no travel trailer shall be permitted in
the mobile or manufactured home sectors.
   B.   All parks shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water; drainage shall
not endanger any water supply.
   C.   The minimum area of any park shall be five (5) acres. Parks in
existence on the effective date hereof can continue to operate with less than
five (5) acres' area; however, if the park is to be expanded, it must at that
time expand to include at least five (5) acres.
   D.   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten (10)
homes per gross acre for a mobile or manufactured home park, and no more than
fifteen (15) travel trailers per gross acre, for a travel trailer park. (Area
used for sewerage treatment facilities shall not be included in density
computations.) Mobile and manufactured home spaces shall be at least thirty
feet (30') wide where pads are closest to driveways. Travel trailer spaces
shall be at least twenty five feet (25') wide where travel trailers are located
closest to the driveway.
   E.   Every space shall be clearly defined. All homes and travel trailers
shall be parked in such spaces, so that, at the nearest point, they shall be
ten feet (10') from the service road, five feet (5') from the rear lot and at
least ten feet (10') from the boundary line of any other individual spaces, as
well as any other home or travel trailer.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to locate any home or travel trailer less than
twenty five feet (25') from any public street or highway right-of-way, or so
that any part of such home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or
walkway of such park.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile or manufactured home to occupy
a travel trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile or manufactured
home space and for any mobile or manufactured home or travel trailer to be
located in a park unless in a space designated specifically for that type of
home or trailer.
   H.   All mobile and manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a sealed
surface driveway of not less than twenty feet (20') in width, if on street
parking is prohibited, and twenty six feet (26') in width, if on street parking
is permitted on one side of the street only. Driveways must have unobstructed
access to a public street or highway.
   I.   In all parks existing on the effective date hereof, parking on or
adjacent to the street within the park is permissible as long as it does not
obstruct free movement of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a
question to be determined by the Planning Commission, with final appeal to the
City Commission. If, upon final appeal before said City Commission, it is
determined that a safety hazard does in fact exist, the park concerned will be
required to comply with the following provisions:
      1.   In new mobile or manufactured home parks, at least two (2) clearly
defined parking spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to
the space.
      2.   In new travel trailer parks, at least one clearly defined parking
space shall be provided for each space either on, or adjacent to, the space.
   J.   All roadways within a park shall meet road improvement standards
consistent with the City's standards, or State law for private roads, as
contained in the City's adopted Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
   K.   In developed areas of the City, new parks must abut, and have their
major means of ingress and egress on, a thoroughfare of appropriate
classification.
   L.   All parks shall have and maintain a buffer planting strip along all
park boundaries not bordering a street. (2007 Code § 10-24)
10-7A-6: SERVICE BUILDINGS FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one service
building separately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities.
   B.   Service buildings shall:
      1.   Be located twenty five feet (25') or more from any travel trailer
space;
      2.   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      3.   Be of moisture resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      4.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather, and to supply adequate
hot water during time of peak demands; and
      5.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   C.   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public, or constitute a menace. (2007 Code § 10-25)
10-7A-7: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks, laundries and other buildings within the park, shall be discharged into
a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or private sewer and
lagoon system, of such construction and in such manner as approved by the
Oklahoma State Department of Health and in accordance with all applicable
ordinance, codes and regulations of the City.
   B.   Each home space shall be provided with at least a three inch (3") sewer
connection at least four inches (4") above the surface of the ground. The sewer
connection should be protected by a concrete collar at least four inches (4")
thick and have a minimum outside diameter of twenty four inches (24").
Connection between the home drain and the sewer must be watertight and self-
draining. Homes with fixtures from which back siphonage may occur shall be
connected to the park's water system until the defect has been corrected.
   C.   In the event that a public sewer system is, or becomes available,
within three hundred feet (300') of a park, connection must be made to the
public system within one hundred eighty (180) days of notification by City
officials.
   D.   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on the
maximum capacity of the park. Effluent from sewage treatment facilities shall
not be discharged into the watershed of any City lake, or any other waters of
the State. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create
a nuisance or health hazard to the park or to the owners or occupants of any
adjacent property. The Oklahoma State Department of Health must approve the
type of treatment proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and sewer
systems, prior to construction.
   E.   Every mobile or manufactured home occupying a park space shall tie onto
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated wastes into the system.
Every travel trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
Any other dumping of accumulated waste within the City is prohibited.
   F.   The monthly sewer charge shall be as indicated in title 9, chapter 5 of
this Code.
   G.   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall maintain
trailer and home connections to sewer and water systems in good condition and
shall assume responsibility for sewerage or water leakage on park premises.
   H.   No sewer connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces. (2007 Code
§ 10-26)
10-7A-8: WATER SUPPLY FOR PARKS:
   A.   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of two hundred fifty
(250) gallons per day, per space. Where a public supply of water of such
quality is available, within three hundred feet (300'), or becomes available
within three hundred feet (300'), connection shall be made thereto within one
hundred twenty (120) days of written notification by City representatives, and
its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private water supplies must be
developed, the health official must approve the location, construction and
development of the water well, pipe system and connections. No private source
other than water well shall be used.
   B.   The water system of the park shall be connected by pipes to all
buildings and all spaces. Each home shall be provided with a cold water tap at
least four inches (4") above the ground. An adequate supply of hot water shall
be provided at all times in the service buildings.
   C.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
State and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies, and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage. All water connections shall be weather
tight.
   D.   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the health official.
   E.   Individual water service connections, which are provided for direct use
by homes or travel trailers, shall be of such construction so that they will
not be damaged by the parking of such homes or travel trailers. The park system
shall be adequate to provide twenty (20) pounds per square inch of pressure at
all home or travel trailer connections.
   F.   Provisions shall be made within one hundred fifty feet (150') of each
travel trailer space to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   G.   No well casing, pumps, machinery or suction pipes shall be located in
any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room or space
above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such rooms,
whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface.
All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain,
and floors shall extend at least two feet (2') from the well in all directions.
The pedestal shall not be less than twelve inches (12") above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   H.   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight, and of impervious
material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be effectively
screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be constructed with
overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of contaminated material.
Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any pipe in which sewage
or polluted water may back up.
   I.   Underground stop and waste cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
   J.   No private water well shall be permitted within the City for park use,
except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the City; provided, that
private wells may be used if the City does not provide a City Water System.
   K.   No water connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces. (2007 Code
§ 10-27)
10-7A-9: REFUSE DISPOSAL FOR PARKS; INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
   B.   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight and rodentproof
containers, which shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any
home or travel trailer space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient
numbers and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   C.   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designated as to prevent containers from
being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration, and to
facilitate cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently
connected to racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   D.   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly, or as otherwise
required by the health official. Where City garbage collection is not
available, the park operator shall either employ a private agency or provide
this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles
or covered containers.
   E.   Where City or other private disposal service is not available, the park
operator shall dispose of the refuse by transporting to an approved disposal
site, as directed by the health official. Refuse shall be buried only at
locations and by methods approved by the health official, and in accordance
with the ordinances of the City.
   F.   When City refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
   G.   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the health official, shall be applied in the park.
   H.   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the health official
for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent measures.
   I.   The health official may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   J.   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the park.
   K.   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the health
official, to exterminate them. (2007 Code § 10-28)
10-7A-10: ELECTRICITY; LIGHTING; FUELS; POWER SOURCES:
   A.   An electrical outlet supplying at least one hundred ten (110) volts
shall be provided for each home space. The installation shall comply with all
applicable State and local Electrical Codes and ordinances. Such electrical
outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. Plug
receptacles shall also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line
shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and no main power line shall be
suspended less than eighteen feet (18') above the ground, unless otherwise
approved by the City building inspector.
   B.   Streets and driveways within all parks shall be lighted with street
lights meeting the current standards of the Illuminating Engineering Society or
one-half (1/2) candlepower, whichever is higher.
   C.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile or
manufactured homes shall be of acceptable material, as determined by the City
building inspector, and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in
place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place
and shall not be located inside or beneath the home or less than five feet (5')
from any home exit. All such installations shall meet the requirements of
applicable, adopted codes.
   D.   All power used for residential or nonresidential purposes within the
park shall be derived from electricity, natural gas or solar energy sources.
(2007 Code § 10-29)
10-7A-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
   B.   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six inch (6")
water mains, there shall be provided a two inch (2"), frost protected water
riser within three hundred feet (300') of each home or building.
   C.   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes. (2007 Code § 10-30)
10-7A-12: ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS:
   A.   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall be
made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   B.   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   C.   A building permit issued by the City Clerk shall be required before any
construction on a mobile or manufactured home space or any structural addition
or alteration to the exterior of a home takes place. No construction, addition
or alteration to the exterior of a home located in a park shall be permitted
unless of the same type of construction or materials as the home affected. All
construction, additions or alterations shall be in compliance with applicable
local and State laws.
   D.   No structure, other than a mobile home and/or one storage shed, of no
more than two hundred ten (210) cubic feet, shall be permitted on a mobile home
space. (2007 Code § 10-31)
10-7A-13: REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Each park licensee shall keep a register containing a record of all
home and travel owners and occupants located within the park. The register
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each home and any
motor vehicle; and
      2.   The make, model, year and license of each mobile or manufactured
home and motor vehicle.
   B.   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
The register of each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a period of
one year following the date of departure of the registrant from the park. (2007
Code § 10-32)
10-7A-14: DAMAGED OR DILAPIDATED UNITS:
Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not be
kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The City building
inspector or the health official shall determine if a mobile home or travel
trailer is damaged or dilapidated to a point which makes said mobile home or
travel trailer unfit for human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent
basis. Whenever such a determination is made, the mobile home or travel trailer
shall be vacated and removed from the premises. (2007 Code § 10-33)
10-7A-15: TIE-DOWNS:
   A.   Every home in a park or subdivision covered by the provisions of this
chapter shall be anchored and tied down for safety purposes in a manner
equivalent to the following:
      1.   Homes up to thirty feet (30') in length shall require two (2) frame
ties per side.
      2.   Homes thirty feet (30') to fifty feet (50') in length shall require
three (3) frame ties per side.
      3.   Homes fifty feet (50') to seventy feet (70') in length shall require
four (4) frame ties per side.
      4.   Homes over seventy feet (70') in length shall require five (5) frame
ties per side.
      5.   Over-the-home ties shall also be installed as close to each end as
possible with straps at stud and rafter locations.
   B.   All ties attached to concrete pads or ribbons must be located in
footings or foundation piers. If "dead man" ties are used, ties must be
installed in soil to a depth of at least six feet (6').
   C.   Additional tie-down requirements for homes in flood-prone areas shall
also be met (see chapter 10 of this title). (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 8
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
SECTION:
10-8-1: Definitions
10-8-2: Drilling Permit Required; Application Process
10-8-3: Permit Fees; Permittee's Insurance And Bond
10-8-4: Existing Wells
10-8-5: Zoning; Location
10-8-6: Regulations And Restrictions
10-8-7: Penalty
10-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this chapter are hereby defined to have the
meanings set out below:
CIRCULATING MUD PIT: The working pit from which drilling muds are continuously
recirculated during the drilling process into and from the drilling hole, for
the purpose of flushing cuttings from the drill bit, and as a lubricant to
reduce torque, drag, heat, friction and differential sticking during the
drilling process.
DISPOSAL WELL: Any well drilled or actually used for injection of salt water or
other substances into the earth at a point other or different than the point of
extraction or production thereof from the earth.
MUD: The drilling fluid used and recirculated through the drilling hole as a
lubricant to reduce torque, drag, heat, friction and differential sticking and
to flush drill bit cuttings from the hole during the drilling process.
MUD PROGRAM: The planned usage of drilling fluid lubricants, specifying with
particularity the type, name and physical and chemical composition and
characteristics of all ingredients thereof, together with such laboratory and
other technical data as may be necessary or required by the City building
inspector to evaluate the same as pollutive, deleterious or otherwise.
OIL OR GAS WELL: Any well drilled, operated or maintained for the production of
oil gas, casing head gas or any of them or their byproducts or derivatives.
RESERVE PIT: Any excavation, pit or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store or hold rocks, drill bit cuttings, shale, sand, fresh water or
drilling mud which contains no salt water, oil, oil derivations, caustics,
acids or other deleterious substances harmful to soil, vegetation or injurious
to animal or human life.
SLUSH PIT: Any excavation, pit or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store or hold waste oil, oil derivatives, sand, salt water or other
waste products or deleterious substances produced or used in the drilling,
swabbing, cleaning or reworking of any oil, gas or disposal well. (2007 Code §
14-1)
10-8-2: DRILLING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful and an
offense for any person or corporation to drill, maintain or operate an oil, gas
or disposal well within the corporate limits of the City without first having
procured a City drilling permit to do so, as hereinafter provided, and without
being in compliance with all applicable ordinances of the City.
   B.   Every person hereafter desiring to drill, maintain or operate an oil,
gas or disposal well in the City shall file application therefor, in writing,
in the form required by the City Clerk, signed by the applicant or an agent
authorized to sign the same.
   C.   Such application shall specify the quarter section, township, range and
the location within the quarter section thereof so as to identify said well
location within a particular ten (10) acre tract.
   D.   All equipment to be utilized in the drilling, operation or maintenance
of said well shall be specified in said application with particularity and the
mud program, as that term is defined herein, shall be specified and attached in
writing thereto, for approval by the City Clerk. (2007 Code § 14-2)
10-8-3: PERMIT FEES; PERMITTEE'S INSURANCE AND BOND:
   A.   Deposit And Application: Prior to the issuance of any permit, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk, cash or certified check in the
amount of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) to cover the
administrative overhead and inspection enforcement during the first year's
operation. The application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by
some duly authorized representative and contain the information requested in
section
10-8-2 of this chapter and be accompanied by bond and insurance as outlined in
this section. Each permit shall cover only a single well bore, regardless of
how many well bores are located at any given site.
   B.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: No actual operations shall be
commenced until the permittee shall file with the City, bonds and a certificate
of insurance as follows:
      1.   a. A bond executed by a reliable insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Oklahoma, as surety and with the applicant as
principal, running to the City of Waurika for the benefit of the City and all
persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with the terms
and conditions of this chapter and the terms, conditions and regulations of the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Oklahoma Department of Environmental
Quality in the operation of the oil or gas well for either natural or
artificial production. Said bond shall become effective on or before the date
the same is filed with the City and remain in force and effect for at least
twelve (12) months subsequent to the operation of the permitted well as a
producing well, and in addition the bond shall be conditioned that the
permittee will promptly pay fines, penalties and other assessments imposed upon
the permittee by reason of his breach of any of the terms, provisions and
conditions of this chapter, and that the permittee will promptly restore the
streets, sidewalks and other public property of the City which may be disturbed
or damaged in the permittee's operations, to their former condition; and that
the permittee will promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash, waste and
other substances, and will, after abandonment, grade, level and restore said
property to the same surface condition, as practicable as is possible, as
existed prior to commencing operation; and further, that the permittee shall
indemnify and hold harmless the City for any and all liability attributable to
granting the permit.
         b.   The amount of the bond shall be twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00). If the permittee operates multiple wells within the City, the
permittee shall post a single bond that will cover all operations of the
permittee at all wells located in the City. The amount of the bond posted to
cover all operations of the permittee at all wells within the City shall be
according to the following schedule:
1 well           $ 25,000.00
2 wells          40,000.00
3 wells          50,000.00
4 wells          60,000.00
5 wells          70,000.00
6 wells          75,000.00
7 to 10 wells    100,000.00
11 wells or more 150,000.00
 
      2.   a. In addition to the bond required in subsection B1 of this
section, the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard
comprehensive public liability insurance written by a reliable insurance
company authorized to do business within the State of Oklahoma. Said policy or
policies shall provide for the following minimum coverage:
            (1)   Bodily injury, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per
person; five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence.
            (2)   Property damage and pollution damage, one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
         b.   Said policy or policies shall provide full coverage in the event
of pollution and shall not include any pollution exclusion whatsoever. The
permittee shall file with the City Manager certificates of insurance as above
stated, and shall obtain the written approval thereof of the oil and gas
inspector who shall act thereon promptly after the date of such filing. Said
insurance policy or policies shall not be canceled without written notice to
the City Manager at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such
cancellation. In the event said policy or policies are canceled, the permit
granted shall immediately thereupon terminate without any action on the part of
the City, and the permittee's rights to operate under said permit shall
immediately cease until the permittee files with the City Manager an additional
certificate of insurance as required above.
      3.   If, after completion of a producing well, the permittee has complied
with all of the provisions of this chapter, such as removing derricks, clearing
premises, etc., the permittee shall apply to the oil and gas inspector to have
the insurance policy or policies reduced as follows:
         a.   Bodily injury, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
person, and two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per occurrence.
         b.   Property damage, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
         c.   Pollution damage, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) (full
coverage with no exclusion whatsoever).
      4.   The bond required in subsection B1 of this section and the insurance
policy or policies required in subsection B2 of this section, shall assure that
the permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal and State laws, rules,
regulations, standards and directives relating to the maintenance of the safe
and beneficial physical, chemical and biological properties of any natural
waters located within or under the City; that the permittee shall obtain the
necessary permits from the City and State with regard to any operations which
have the potential of rendering such waters harmful or detrimental or injurious
to the public health, safety and welfare; that the permittee shall bear all the
cost necessary and incidental to the correction of any pollution to said waters
caused by the permittee or permittee's agents, servants, employees,
subcontractors or independent contractors; that the permittee shall pay all
fines, penalties, assessments or judgment resulting directly or incidentally
from the permittee's activities and which result in pollution of any waters
located within or under the City; that the permittee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the City from any and all liability resulting from the pollution of
any waters located within or under the City. (2007 Code §§ 14-3, 14-6; amd.
2019 Code)
10-8-4: EXISTING WELLS:
Owners or operators of oil, gas or disposal wells heretofore drilled and
completed within the City shall not be required to procure the initial City
drilling permit hereinabove provided; however, it shall be incumbent upon such
owners and operators to furnish evidence of liability insurance coverage and
post the bond for the restoration of the land and plugging of the well upon its
abandonment in the form and amount above required for issuance of a City
drilling permit at the time of application for the annual renewal permit as
herein provided, or within sixty (60) days after the effective date hereof,
whichever shall first occur, as a condition of continuing the operation and
maintenance of any well heretofore drilled and prior to commencing any
swabbing, cleaning or reworking operations of all oil, gas and disposal wells
heretofore or hereinafter drilled within the City. All existing wells shall
also comply with all of the provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 14-4)
10-8-5: ZONING; LOCATION:
Oil, gas or disposal wells shall be located only in those zoning districts
which permit such use as provided in the adopted Zoning Ordinance of the City.
(2007 Code § 14-5)
10-8-6: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person or corporation to do or
permit any of the following, and the same are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance:
   A.   Earthen slush pits shall not be constructed, maintained or used by any
person or corporation at any location within the City. All waste oil, salt
water, liquid with oil content, gasoline or other waste produced in connection
with the drilling, testing, cleaning, swabbing, reworking or operating of any
oil, gas or disposal well shall be captured and retained in steel tanks or
vessels and transported from the premises to a disposal facility. In no event
shall any of such substances be permitted to escape from the premises owned,
leased or controlled by the persons carrying on such operations by seepage,
overflow or otherwise, nor flow across the surface of the ground, or upon any
public way, into any storm or sanitary sewer, drainage ditch, upon any gutter
or paving or into any gully, stream or tributary within the City. Plastic
liners may be required, at the discretion of a majority of the City Commission.
   B.   Earthen reserve pits, as herein defined, which contain no salt water,
oil, oil derivatives, caustics, acids or other deleterious substances harmful
to soil, vegetation or injurious to animal or human life, shall be allowed to
be constructed or used in connection with the drilling, swabbing, cleaning out
or reworking of oil or gas wells within the City, and the contents thereof need
not be transported from the premises to a disposal facility, if the same are
leveled and the surface of the ground restored as nearly as possible to its
original condition within ninety (90) days after completion of said drilling,
swabbing, cleanout or reworking operations.
   C.   An earthen retaining wall of adequate size for the terrain shall be
constructed on the low side of all well sites situated within the City on
sloping or unleveled ground. The top of the retaining wall shall be at least as
high as the top of the Christmas tree or other wellhead connections on any
completed well, or at least as high as the ground at the point where surface
casing is set in the well when drilling.
   D.   Storage tanks or other types of tanks containing flammable substances
used in connection with any oil, gas or disposal well within the City shall
have earthen embankments constructed around them of sufficient size and height
to be able to adequately contain one and one-half (11/2) times the volume of
such tanks in the event of a rupture thereof at the floor of such tank. No
drain plugs, openings or siphons shall be placed in the walls or dikes which
will permit the escape of any liquids through the same. In no event shall any
such tank be located nearer than one hundred feet (100') to a dwelling or
business structure, street or highway within the City.
   E.   No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel or other internal combustion
engine of any kind shall be operated in conjunction with the drilling or
operation of an oil or gas well within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any
dwelling or business structure within the City.
   F.   No oil, gas or disposal well shall be drilled, operated or maintained,
nor shall any operations in connection therewith be carried on or conducted,
within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any church, school or hospital building
within the City.
   G.   Premises upon which any oil, gas or disposal wells are drilled,
operated or maintained shall be kept free of all accumulations of rubbish,
litter, unused equipment or materials, excess rotary mud, salt water, waste oil
or oil byproducts and other waste, insofar as the same may be reasonably done
in the conduct of operations covered by this chapter.
   H.   Approved equipment, standard devices and ordinary methods such as are
commonly known and used in the oil and gas drilling and producing industry for
the safety and protection of property from damage due to drilling and operating
activities, shall be used at all locations within the City. Failure on the part
of any owner, driller or operator to utilize such equipment, devices or methods
shall be the basis for injunction thereof by the City, or any person affected
thereby, in addition to the penalties therefor otherwise provided therein.
   I.   At least seven hundred fifty feet (750') of surface casing shall be set
in each well after notifications of intention to do so have been given the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission, whose representative shall be entitled to
inspect the installation thereof and direct the type and amount of cement to be
used in cementing the same in the hole.
   J.   All drilling wells shall be equipped with a master gate, or its
equivalent, adequate blowout preventers, flow lines and valves commensurate
with the working pressures involved.
   K.   That part of the drilling rig adjacent to or facing any lake and
situated within one-half (1/2) mile of the normal elevation thereof shall be
covered with canvas, sheet metal or other suitable material at all times during
drilling operations.
   L.   Production casing of a size with not less than a four and one-half inch
(41/2") outside diameter, in good condition, shall be set no higher than the
top of the producing formation and cemented with a sufficient amount of cement
to obtain a maximum of five hundred feet (500') of annular fill up above the
casing. All of such production casing shall be tested by pressure methods for
either drilling the cement plug or perforating, if the cement is not drilled.
   M.   Upon completion of any flowing well, the wellhead equipment shall have,
on the tubing, at least one master valve plus a flow valve, and a valve on the
casing annulus. All wells shall be equipped with flow tubing of a size at least
two inches (2") inside diameter extending not less than fifty feet (50') from
the top of the lowest producing formation.
   N.   All disposal wells shall be equipped with at least two inch (2") inside
diameter tubing set on a packer and a pressure gauge shall be installed on the
casing annulus at all times. (2007 Code § 14-20)
10-8-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not to exceed the limits
established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In
addition, violation of any of the provisions hereof declared a public nuisance
shall be a basis for injunction at the suit of the City or at the suit of any
person, firm or corporation adversely affected thereby. (2007 Code § 14-50)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-9-1: Planning And Preservation Commissions
10-9-2: Zoning Regulations
10-9-3: Subdivision Of Land
10-9-4: Penalty
10-9-1: PLANNING AND PRESERVATION COMMISSIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction Areas:
      1.   The City Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall
have jurisdiction over all land within the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   The jurisdictional area of the Regional Planning Commission shall
include, for the purposes of the regulation and review of land subdivision
only, any lands outside the corporate limits of the City whose any one
boundary, at any point, shall be at and within a distance of three (3) miles
from the corporate limits of the City; provided, that such jurisdiction shall
only include land within Jefferson County, Oklahoma. (2007 Code § 15-3)
   B.   Rules And Regulations:
      1.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall
prescribe and adopt rules and regulations governing the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of all regulations, transactions and
findings.
      2.   Regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be scheduled at
least once each month; regular meetings of the Preservation Commission shall be
scheduled at least four (4) times each year.
      3.   Special and emergency meetings may be called by the Mayor or
Chairman of each commission, in accordance with the State Open Meetings Law.
(2007 Code § 15-4)
   C.   Employees; Expenditures:
      1.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall have
the authority to contract for necessary professional services, within the
limits of any budgetary appropriations fixed by the City Commission; all
compensation for such services shall also be fixed by said City Commission.
      2.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission may incur
other necessary expenses, within the limits of the City Commission budgetary
appropriations, to carry out all purposes and responsibilities. (2007 Code §
15-5)
   D.   Project Review Procedures: All projects or matters that fall within the
duties and powers of the Planning Commission or the Preservation Commission (as
specified in this Code) shall be referred to either commission for
investigation and report, before any final action shall be taken thereon by the
City Commission. If either commission fails to make an investigation and report
on any matter referred to it within sixty (60) days, or other agreed upon time,
the City Commission may proceed to act upon such matter. (2007 Code § 15-6)
   E.   Duties And Powers:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall have the following duties and powers:
         a.   To prepare and recommend to the City Commission, for adoption, a
Comprehensive Plan for the future development of the City, and to ensure that
said plan, once prepared and adopted, is properly utilized and updated at
appropriate intervals;
         b.   To make recommendations concerning the community's growth,
improvement and beautification;
         c.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Commission
Trustees on all matters relating to the location and development of parks and
recreational areas, streets, public grounds and structures;
         d.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Commission, for
adoption, a suitable Zoning Ordinance to assist in the implementation of the
community's Comprehensive Plan, and to assist said City Commission in
administering said Zoning Ordinance;
         e.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Commission, for
adoption, rules and standards for use in regulating the subdivision of land
within the Planning Commission's jurisdictional area, and to assist said City
Commission in administering said land subdivision regulations; and
         f.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Commission, for
adoption, such other rules, regulations or standards as may be necessary to
implement the Comprehensive Plan for the City, including standards and
regulations for floodplain management, historic preservation, signs, annexation
and utility extensions, among others.
      2.   The Planning Commission may also accept or raise funds, from public
or private sources, for valid purposes or projects.
      3.   The Preservation Commission shall have the powers and duties
outlined in chapter 5 of this title. (2007 Code § 15-7)
10-9-2: ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   City Power To Zone:
      1.   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety and welfare of all
citizens of the community, the City Commission is empowered to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories and size of structures, the percentage
of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards and other open spaces, the
density of population and the location and use of structures and land.
      2.   For any of the above purposes, the City Commission may adopt an
ordinance dividing the City into zoning districts of such number, shape and
area as may be deemed most beneficial to the community. Within such zoning
districts, the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or
use of structures or land may be regulated. All such regulations shall be
uniform throughout each district, but the regulations in any zoning district
may differ from those in other districts. (2007 Code § 15-20)
   B.   Relationship Of Zoning To Adopted Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   Any Zoning Ordinance adopted by the City Commission shall be made
subsequent to the preparation of, and in accordance with, the community's
Comprehensive Plan, which plan shall be adopted as a statement of public policy
by resolution of said City Commission.
      2.   Zoning districts created for protection of historic resources shall
also be made subsequent to the preparation of, and in accordance with, an
adopted Comprehensive Plan element for the particular historic resource or area
to be protected. (2007 Code § 15-21)
   C.   Planning Commission To Act As Zoning Commission: To avail itself of the
powers of State law, the City Planning Commission is hereby designated as the
Zoning Commission of the City. (2007 Code § 15-22)
   D.   Zoning Ordinance Adopted By Reference: The Zoning Ordinance adopted by
reference by Ordinance 1295 (February 9, 1970), as amended by Ordinance 090898-
1 (September 9, 1998), and now in effect within the City, shall continue in
effect as fully and completely as if set out in its entirety in this Code.
(2007 Code § 15-23)
   E.   Zoning Board Of Adjustment: See title 2, chapter 2 of this Code. (2007
Code § 15-24)
10-9-3: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Subdivision Review Process:
      1.   All subdivision plats, or replats of land laid out in plats or lots,
and the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated
to public or private use, located within the jurisdictional area of either the
City or Regional Planning Commission, shall first be submitted to said Planning
Commission for its review.
      2.   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the corporate
limits of the City, final approval, prior to the filing of said plat or replat
with the Jefferson County Clerk, shall be obtained from the City Commission.
      3.   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the
jurisdictional area of the Regional Planning Commission, but outside of the
corporate boundaries of the City, approval of the Regional Planning Commission
shall be obtained prior to the filing of said plat or replat with the Jefferson
County Clerk.
      4.   In reviewing subdivision plats or replats, the Planning Commission
and the City Commission shall utilize the definitions, procedures and design
and improvement standards in the "Subdivision Regulations" adopted by and for
the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, or the appropriate jurisdictional area and
entity. (2007 Code § 15-40)
   B.   Subdivision Regulations Adopted By Reference: The Subdivision
Regulations adopted by reference by Ordinance 1296 (February 9, 1970), and now
in effect within the City, shall continue in effect as fully and completely as
if set out in its entirety in this Code. (2007 Code § 15-41)
10-9-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in section
1-10-21 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2007 Code § 15-100)
CHAPTER 10
FLOOD-PRONE AREAS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Definitions
10-10-2: Review Subdivision And Other Development Proposals
10-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application; these words and terms shall also
be consistent with the similarly used words and terms in the Zoning Ordinance
and Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the City building inspector's interpretation
of any provision of the City's Floodplain Management Regulations or a request
for a variance.
AREA OF JURISDICTION: All of the unincorporated land under the jurisdiction of
the City Commission of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet (3'),
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its flood subgrade below ground level
on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving excavation or drilling operations.
DWELLING UNIT: A place of residence and may be a single- or multiple-dwelling
building.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor,
elevated aboveground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers) or
shear walls parallel to the flow of water; and b) adequately anchored so as not
to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls, with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of Zones V1-30,
VE or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for the FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the effective
date of the Floodplain Management Regulations adopted by the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY AND FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FHBM/FIRM): Official maps
on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the
unincorporated areas of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, and are adopted by
reference herein; also adopted herein is the Flood Map series prepared for
Jefferson County, Oklahoma, by FEMA.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles and water surface
elevations of the base flood, as well as the Flood Hazard Boundary-Floodway
Maps.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
water, or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface water from
any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system may typically include tidal barriers, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes.
FLOODPLAIN BOARD: The Planning Board for Floodplain Management of the City of
Waurika, Oklahoma, also known as the City Planning Commission.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: The codes, resolutions and other regulations
relating to the use of land and construction within the channel and floodplain
areas, including, but not limited to, Zoning Regulations, platting regulations,
Building Codes, Housing Codes and open area regulations.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
its adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for working, sleeping, eating, cooking or
recreation areas, or a combination thereof. (A floor used for storage purposes
only is not a "habitable floor".)
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually on the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered Historic
District or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered Historic District;
   C.   Individually listed on the Oklahoma Register of Historic Places; or
   D.   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1. By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Shall be as defined in chapter 7 of this title. See
definition of "manufactured housing" in section
10-7-2 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
"start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the
Floodplain Management Regulations adopted by the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For purposes of
determining insurance rates, "start of construction" shall refer to structures
for which construction was started on or after the effective date of any
initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and shall include
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Floodplain Management Regulations adopted by the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, based upon the criteria established by the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
PERSON: Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including State and local
governments and agencies.
PROGRAM: The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), authorized by the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 USC 4001 - 4128), as amended.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The term "start of construction" (for other than new
construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources
Act, Pub.L. 97-348), includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, as long as the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of said permit date. The actual start means either: a) the
first placement of permanent construction for a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction
of columns; or b) any work beyond the stage of excavation; or c) the placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
include: a) land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does
it include, b) the installation of streets and/or walkways, c) excavation of
basements, footings, piers or foundations, d) the erection of temporary forms,
or e) the installation on the property of accessory buildings (such as garages
or sheds) not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STORM CELLAR: A space below grade used to accommodate occupants of the
structure and emergency supplies as a means of temporary shelter against
tornadoes or similar windstorm activity.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started; or b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with existing State or local Health, Sanitary or Safety
Code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this Code,
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by said regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the City's Floodplain Management Regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time as
that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (2007 Code § 4-100)
10-10-2: REVIEW SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS:
   A.   The Planning Commission and the City Commission shall review
subdivision and other development proposals to determine whether such proposals
will be safe from flooding.
   B.   If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood-prone
area, the Planning Commission and the City Commission shall ensure that:
      1.   Such proposals are consistent with the community's adopted
Comprehensive Plan and the need to minimize flood damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities are located and constructed to
avoid, minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      3.   Adequate drainage provisions are made; and
      4.   Proposals of more than five (5) lots or five (5) acres shall include
100-year flood elevation data. (2007 Code § 4-100)
CHAPTER 11
ZONING
SECTION:
10-11-1: Title, Purpose, Interpretation And Application, Jurisdiction Of Zoning
10-11-1-1: Title
10-11-1-2: Purpose
10-11-1-3: Interpretation And Application
10-11-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-11-1-5: Invalidity Of A Part
10-11-1-6: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
10-11-2: Establishment Of Districts; Zoning Districts
10-11-3: Definitions; Interpretation Of Words And Terms
10-11-4: General Provisions Applying To All Or To Several Districts
10-11-4-1: Limitation On Use
10-11-4-2: Divisions Of Lots
10-11-4-3: Yards
10-11-4-4: Street Access
10-11-4-5: Storage And Parking Of Trailers And Commercial Vehicles
10-11-4-6: Off-Street Parking
10-11-5: Nonconformities
10-11-5-1: Intent
10-11-5-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-11-5-3: Conforming Structures
10-11-5-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
10-11-5-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
10-11-5-6: Changes In Nonconformity
10-11-6: Specific District Regulations
10-11-6-1: R-1, Single-Family Residential District
10-11-6-2: R-2, Two-Family Residential District
10-11-6-3: R-3, Multi-Family Residential District
10-11-6-4: R-4, Residential District
10-11-6-5: C - General Commercial District
10-11-6-6: I - General Industrial District
10-11-6-7: A - General Agricultural District
10-11-1: TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION, JURISDICTION OF
ZONING:
10-11-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.” (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021;
amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purposes of promoting the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community; lessening congestion in the
streets, securing safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; providing
adequate light and air, preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding undue
concentration of population; facilitating the adequate provision of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of
land throughout the community; and promoting the development of community in
accordance with a comprehensive plan. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   As concerns interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations or ordinance, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
   B.   Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word ''building" shall
mean as well the word "structure"; the word "used" shall include "arranged",
"designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased", or
"intended to be used", and the word "shall" is mandating and not directory,
except where. The natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect in the corporate limits of the
City of Waurika, Oklahoma. Territory annexed to the corporate limits of the
City of Waurika, Oklahoma, subsequent to the provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed to be designated as R-1, Single Family Residential District until
reclassified in the marmer provided by law. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd.
Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-1-5: INVALIDITY OF A PART:
In case any portion of this chapter shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remainder of the Ordinance shall not thereby by invalid,
but shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd.
Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-1-6: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
Any ordinance now in effect that conflicts with any provisions of this chapter
is hereby repealed. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-
2022)
10-11-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS; ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter and the promotion of public health,
safety, and general welfare of the community, the following Districts are
hereby established for the City of Waurika, Oklahoma:
      R-1 - Single-Family Residential District
      R-2 -Two-Family Residential District
      R-3 - Multi-Family Residential District
      R-4 - Residential District
      C -General Commercial District
      I -General Industrial District
      A -General Agricultural District
   B.   The locations and boundaries of the zoning district shall be as
provided in the Zoning Map set forth by ordinance.
   C.   Whenever the boundary of any district falls within and parallel to any
street, alley, or watercourse, said boundary is determined to fall on the
centerline of said street, alley or watercourse unless clearly to the contrary.
   D.   In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the "Zoning Map of the City of Waurika,
Oklahoma", the Planning Commission, upon written application or upon its own
motion, shall recommend the location of such boundaries to the Board of
Adjustment and the Board of Adjustment shall make the final determination. It
shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to maintain an up-to-date
official "Zoning Map of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma", including all
amendments directly adopted by the City Commission. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-
2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-3: DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION OF WORDS AND TERMS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
ACCESSORY USE A use or structure customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the
OR STRUCTURE: principal use of a building or to the principal use of land and which is located
              upon the same lot therewith.
              The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming, dairying,
              pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
              accessory uses for packing treating, or storing the produce; provided, however,
AGRICULTURE:  that the operation of any such accessory shall be secondary to that of normal
              agricultural activities, and provided further that the above uses shall not
              include the commercial feeding of garbage to swine or other animals, stockyards
              or commercial feedlots for cattle.
              A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use. not more than thirty (30) feet
ALLEY:        wide, affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
              intended for general traffic circulation.
AUTOMOBILE OR An open area, other than a street, used for the display, sales, or rental of new
TRAILER SALES or used. motor vehicles or trailers in operable condition and where no repair
AREA:         work is done.
AUTOMOBILE    General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles or
REPAIR,       trailers; collision services including body, frame, or fender straightening or
MAJOR:        repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE    Incidental replacement of parts and motor service to passenger cars and trucks
REPAIR MINOR: not exceeding one and one-half (1 - 1/2) ton capacity.
AUTOMOBILE    Any area used for retail sale of gasoline or oil fuels or automobile
SERVICE       accessories, and incidental services including facilities for lubricating and
STATION OR    washing and cleaning, but not including painting, major repair, or the sale of
FILLING       butane or propane fuels.
STATION:
AUTOMOBILE
WASH OR       A building or structure or chain conveyor, blowers, steam cleaners and other
AUTOMATIC CAR mechanical devices used primarily for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
WASH:
              In describing the boundaries of a District, the word "block" refers to the legal
              description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the property
BLOCK:        abutting on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets or
              between an intersecting street and a railroad right-of-way or between an
              intersecting street and a watercourse.
BOARDING.     Where meals or lodging are provided for persons. other than the family or their
HOUSE AND     relation and excluding facilities for transient persons such as hotels, motels,
ROOMING       inns and other such facilities.
HOUSE:
BOARD OF      The Board of Adjustment of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma, also referred to as
ADJUSTMENT:   the "Board".
              Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is used or
BUILDING:     intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
              property.
BUILDING      See Accessory Use or Structure.
ACCESSORY:
              The vertical distance from the average line of the highest and lowest points of
BUILDING      that portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest point of coping
HEIGHT:       of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or the average height of the
              highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING      A line established beyond which no part of a building shall project, except as
LINE:         otherwise provided by this chapter.
BUILDING,     A building or buildings in which the principal use of the building. site is
PRINCIPAL:    conducted. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed to be the
              principal building on the building site..
BULLETIN      Any sign announcing the activities of an educational, religious, institutional
BOARD:        or similar use.
CEMETERY:     Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human. dead and dedicated
              for cemetery purposes.
              Any place, home or institution which receives three or more children under the
              age of sixteen years for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians
              or custodians, and received for regular periods of time for compensation;
              provided, however, this definition shall not include public and private schools
CHILD CARE    organized, operated or approved under the laws of this State, custody of
CENTER:       children fixed by a court, children related by blood or marriage within the
              third degree to the custodial person, or to churches or other religious or
              public institutions caring for children within their institutional building
              while their parents or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or
              classes and other church activities.
CITY          The official governing body of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
COMMISSION:
CITY PLANNING The Waurika City Planning Commission as established by the statutes hereinbefore
COMMISSION:   .cited, also referred to as "Planning Commission". The City Planning Commission
              shall also be the Zoning Commission for the City of Waurika.
              A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm and
CLINIC:       injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention but who are
              not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on the premises.
              A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying regular
CLUB:         dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group organized
              solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
              enterprise.
COMPREHENSIVE The official city plan of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma and also refers to the
PLAN:         specific document, General Plan for Waurika.
              Also, a nursing home, a rest home; a home for the aged, recuperating,
              chronically ill, or incurable persons, in which two (2) or more persons not of
CONVALESCENT  the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food and shelter or
HOME:         care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar
              institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of disease or
              injury.
COVERAGE:     The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including the area
              covered by all overhanging roofs.
              Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of one or more
DWELLING:     persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, boarding or rooming
              house, hotel or motel.
DWELLING.     A building containing one dwelling unit and designed for or used exclusively by
SINGLE-       one (1) family.
FAMILY:
DWELLING,     A building containing two dwelling units and designed for or used exclusively by
TWO-FAMILY:   two (2) families.
DWELLING,     A building or portion thereof containing three or more dwelling units and
MULTI-FAMILY: designed for or used by three (3) or more families. Also includes the word
              “apartments.”
DWELLING      A room or group of rooms arranged, intended, or designed as a habitable unit,
UNIT:         containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more than one family
              living independently of any other family.
              The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or
              municipal or other governmental agencies. of underground or overhead gas,
              electrical steam or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
ESSENTIAL     communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains,
SERVICES:     drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
              traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories thereof,
              reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such public
              utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health
              or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
              A person living alone or two or more persons living together, related by blood
FAMILY:       or marriage, as a single housekeeping unit, using a single facility for culinary
              purposes in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a
              boardinghouse, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity house, or sorority house.
              The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors. of a building or
FLOOR AREA:   buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
              center lines of walls separating two buildings.
FRONTAGE:     The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a street.
GARAGE        A dwelling for one (1) family erected as a part of a private garage.
APARTMENT:
GARAGE,       Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four or more automobiles
PARKING:      in which any servicing which may be provided is incidental to the primary use
              for storage purposes, and where repair facilities are not provided.
GARAGE.       A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal building used or
PRIVATE:      intended for use: by the occupants of the premises for storage of passenger
              vehicles or trailers.
GARAGE,       The structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage, used for the
PUBLIC:       storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any vehicles.
GARAGE,       A building in which are provided facilities for the care, servicing, repair, or
REPAIR:       equipping of automobiles.
HEIGHT:       The vertical measurement of any structure on a parcel of land measured from the
              average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost point of the structure.
              Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a dwelling which is
              clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
              purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which. is conducted
              entirely within the main or accessory building; provided that no trading and
              merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is no display of
HOME          merchandise or advertising sign other that one non-illuminated name plate, not
OCCUPATION:   more than two (2) square feet in an area, attached to the main or accessory
              building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is customarily used
              for purely domestic or household purposes. A tea room restaurant, rest home,
              clinic, barber shop, beauty parlor, doctor's or dentist's office, child care
              center, tourist home or cabinet shop, metal shop or auto repair garage shall not
              be deemed a home occupation.
HOSPITAL:     See Medical Facilities.
              A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six or more
              sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the more or
HOTEL:        less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without meals for
              compensation, but not including trailer court or camp, hospital, asylum,
              orphanage, or building where persons are housed under restraint.
INDUSTRY:     Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any article,
              substance, or any commodity for commercial use:
INSTITUTIONAL Those uses organized, established, used or intended to be used for the promotion
USES:         of a public, religious, educational, charitable, cultural, social, or
              philanthropic activity and normally operated on a non-profit basis.
              A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
              bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including all wrecking yards, house
              wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for storage of salvaged
JUNK OR       house wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment; but not including
SALVAGE YARD: such places where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed
              building, and not including pawn shops and establishments for the sale,
              purchase, or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in
              operable condition, or salvage material incidental to manufacturing operations.
KENNEL:       Any structure or premises on which five (5) or more dogs over four (4) months of
              age are kept.
              A space of at least ten (10) feet in width and thirty (30) feet in length and
LOADING       having a vertical clearance of at least fourteen (14) feet, designated and
SPACE:        located on a lot for the temporary parking of commercial vehicles while loading
              or unloading merchandise or materials.
              A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
LOT:          building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings or utilized for a
              principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
              required by this chapter and having access on a public street.
              A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting on a street, provided that
LOT, CORNER:  the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides is less than one
              hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
LOT, DEPTH:   The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE   A lot having a frontage on two (2) non-intersecting streets, as distinguished
FRONTAGE:     from a corner lot.
LOT,          A lot other than corner lot.
INTERIOR:
LOT LINE:     Any boundary of a lot.
LOT LINE,     The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where the lot abuts more than
FRONT:        one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
LOT LINE,     The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and most nearly parallel to the
REAR:         front lot line.
LOT LINE,     Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
SIDE:
LOT, WEDGE    A lot situated so that the front is either wider or narrower than the rear of
SHAPED:       the lot.
LOTS OF       A separate and distinct parcel designated on a legally recorded subdivision plat
RECORD:       or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of Jefferson County, State of
              Oklahoma.
MEAN LOT      The average elevation of a lot.
ELEVATION:
              A.   Nursing Home, Rest, or Convalescent Home: See Convalescent Home.
              B.   Dental or Medical Clinic: A building used for the examination and treatment
              of the physically ill, provided that no facilities are provided for patients
              remaining overnight except under emergency conditions.
              C.   Dental or Doctor's Office: The same as dental or medical clinic, including
MEDICAL       the various dental and medical specialties.
FACILITIES:   D.   Hospital: An institution providing physical and mental health services
              primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured
              and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments,
              training facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are an
              integral part of the facilities.
              E.   Public Health Center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
              providing public health services, including related facilities.
MOBILE HOME   A portable or mobile living unit used or designed for human occupancy on a
OR TRAILER:   permanent basis.
MOBILE HOME   A parcel of land under single ownership which has been planned and improved for
PARK:         placement of mobile homes to be occupied as residences.
MOBILE HOME   A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive use of the occupants
LOT:          of a single mobile home.
MOTEL:        An area containing one (1) or more buildings designed or intended to be used as
              temporary sleeping facilities of one (1) or more transient persons.
              Area included in any side, rear, or front yard, or any other unoccupied space on
OPEN SPACE:   a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for the ordinary
              projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
PARCEL:       A lot as defined herein.
PARKING       A permanently surfaced area of not less than two hundred (200) square feet,
SPACE:        either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access
              drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
ROOMING       See Boarding House.
HOUSE:
              Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences,
              emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names, or trademarks by which
              anything is made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a firm, an
              association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a commodity or
              product, which are visible from any public street or right-of-way and designed
SIGN:         to attract attention. "For Sale" and "For Rent" shall be deemed signs within the
              meaning of this definition, but the term "signs" shall not include the flag,
              pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or other political,
              educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like
              campaign, drive, movement, or event used for a public purpose in the public
              interest.
              The net geometric area of the surface of the sign upon,
SIGN, DISPLAY against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated including the
SURFACE AREA: outward extremities of all letters, figures, characters and delineations,
              provided that only one face of a double-faced sign shall be included in the
              computation of display surface area.
SIGN,         A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or designed to reflect light
ILLUMINATED:  from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN,         A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building which projects out at
PROJECTING:   any angle therefrom.
SIGN,         Signs of temporary nature used to advertise the premises for sale, rent, or
TEMPORARY:    lease.
              That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
STORY:        surface of the floor next above it; or, if there is no floor above it, then the
              space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
              A public right-of-way more than thirty (30) feet in width which provides the
STREET:       primary public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for
              vehicular circulation.
STREET,       Any street designated on the Thoroughfare Plan as an arterial, primary arterial,
ARTERIAL:     secondary arterial; major street, etc.
STREET MINOR: Any street not designated on the Thoroughfare Plan as an arterial.
STRUCTURAL    Any changes in the structural members of a building, such as walls, columns,
ALTERATION:   beams or girders.
              Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location on the ground
STRUCTURE:    or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground (not
              including sidewalks, driveway and similar improvement areas).
THOROUGHFARE  The part of the Comprehensive Plan referring to transportation development,
PLAN:         goals, principles, and standards; also includes use of the words "Major Street
              Plan" and "Trafficways Plan".
TRAILER:      A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or designed to carry
              or transport material or animals.
YARD:         A required space on a lot unobstructed except as expressly permitted.
YARD FRONT:   A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot line to side lot
              line abutting on a street, into which a building may not protrude.
YARD REAR:    A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot line to side
              lot line.
              A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting the side lot line
YARD SIDE:    into which no building may protrude. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
              06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
 
10-11-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL OR TO SEVERAL DISTRICTS:
10-11-4-1: LIMITATION ON USE:
No land, building, structure, or improvement shall be used and no building,
structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered,
enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be used or
maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the use,
height, area, coverage, yard, space, and other requirements established in the
district in which such land building, structure, or improvement is located,
except as provided by Article 5, Nonconformities. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-
2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-4-2: DIVISIONS OF LOTS:
An improved lot shall not hereafter be divided into two or more lots unless all
lots resulting from such division comply with all the applicable yard, space,
area, parking and loading regulation of the Zoning District in which located.
(Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-4-3: YARDS:
No building, structure, or improvement shall be permitted to encroach upon
required yard space set forth in the provisions of this Ordinance; provided,
however, that parking signs, fences and gasoline pumping service units may be
permitted to occupy required yard space unless otherwise prohibited. (Ord.
10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-4-4: STREET ACCESS:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-4-5: STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Commercial vehicles and trailers of any type, including travel, camping
and hauling, and mobile homes shall not be parked. or stored on any lot
occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any Residential district except in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   No more than one (1) commercial vehicle, which does not exceed one
and one-half (1 - 1/2) tons rated Capacity, per family living on the premises
shall be permitted, and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling
explosives, gasoline, or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
      2.   No more than one (1) camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer
per family living on the premises shall be permitted and said trailer shall not
exceed twenty-four (24) feet in length or eight (8) feet in width; and further
provided that said trailer shall not be parked or stored for more than forty-
eight (48 hours unless it is located behind the front yard building line. A
camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or
permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the incorporated
limits except in a mobile home park authorized under the ordinances of the City
of Waurika, Oklahoma.
      3.   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a mobile home park
which is in conformity with ordinances of the City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
   B.   Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types may be displayed in such
commercial districts allowing sales of said vehicles or in such industrial
districts allowing their manufacture: provided, however, said vehicles may not
be used for dwelling purposes either temporarily or permanently except in a
mobile home park authorized under the ordinances of City of Waurika, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-4-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose And Application: It is the intent of these requirements that
adequate parking and loading facilities be provided on off-the-street areas for
each use of land within the City of Waurika. Requirements are intended to be
based on the demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all
uses in all Districts.
   B.   Required Open Space: Off-street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use unless otherwise
prohibited; provided however, the off-street parking requirements shall not be
reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   C.   Location: The off-street parking lot shall be located within two
hundred (200) feet, exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use
and shall have direct access to a street or alley.
   D.   Joint Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
   E.   Size Of Off-Street Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
ten (10) feet by twenty (20) feet plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   F.   Amount Of Off-Street Parking And Loading Required: Off-street parking
and loading facilities shall be provided in all Districts in accordance with
the following schedule:
      1.   Dwelling, Single-Family or Duplex: One (1) parking space for each
separate dwelling unit within the structure.
      2.   Dwelling, Multiple-Family: The number of spaces provided shall not
be less than one and one-half (1 - 1/2) times the number of units in the
dwelling.
      3.   Boarding or Rooming House or Hotel: One (1) parking space for each
sleeping room.
      4.   Hospitals: One (1) space for each four patient beds, exclusive of
bassinets, plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor, plus one (1)
space for each three (3) employees including nurses, plus adequate area for the
parking of emergency vehicles.
      5.   Medical or Dental Clinics or Offices: Six (6) spaces per doctor plus
one (1) space for each two (2) employees.
      6.   Convalescent or Nursing Homes: One (1) space for each six (6)
patient beds plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor plus one (1)
space for each two (2) employees including nurses.
      7.   Community Center, Theater, Auditorium, Church Sanctuary: One (1)
parking space for each four (4) permanent seats, based on maximum seating
capacity, or each fifty (50) square feet of floor area in rooms without
permanent seating. but intended to be used for assembly purposes.
      8.   Convention Hall, Lodge, Club, Library, Museum, Place of Amusement or
Recreation: One (1) parking space for each fifty (50) square feet of floor area
used for assembly or recreation in the building.
      9.   Office Building: One (1) parking space for each three hundred (300)
square feet of gross floor area in the building, exclusive of the area used for
storage, utilities and building services.
      10.   Commercial Establishments not otherwise classified: One (1) parking
space for each one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space used for
retail trade in the building and including all areas used by the public.
      11.   Industrial Establishments: One (1) off-street parking space for
each five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area; or one (1) off street
parking space for each two (2) employees, whichever is greater, and one (1)
loading or unloading berth for each twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet
or fraction thereof of gross floor area.
   G.   Paved Surface Required: All parking spaces: shall be paved with a
sealed surface pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust will result
from continued use.
   H.   Off-Street Parking Lots In Residential Districts: Whenever off-street
parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are to be located within or
adjacent to a Residential District, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   All sides of the lot within or abutting the Residential District
shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall or dense evergreen
hedge having a height of not less than five (5) feet. Such fence, wall or hedge
shall be maintained in good condition.
      2.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard when the parking
lot is located in a Residential District or immediately abuts the front yard of
a residential unit.
      3.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      4.   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be paved
with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust
will be produced by continued use.
      5.   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      6.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only non-intermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted. (Ord.
10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-5: NONCONFORMITIES:
10-11-5-1: INTENT:
   A.   Within the Districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this Ordinance was passed or amended but
which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this
Ordinance or future amendment.
   B.   It is the intent of this Ordinance to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this Ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
Districts involved. It is further the intent of this Ordinance that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
District. Nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this ordinance. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-5-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any District in which single family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter; a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption of this Ordinance. Such lots must be
in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the
same ownership. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-
2022)
10-11-5-3: CONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this Ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this Ordinance by
reason of restrictions on area lot coverage, height yards, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such a structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than fifty (50) percent of its replacement cost at time. of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
   C.   Should such a structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the District in
which it is located after it is moved. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this Ordinance, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Ordinance
in the District in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the District in which it is
located.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this Ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the District in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   D.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the District in which it is
located.
   E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-5-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance, lawful
uses of land exist that are no longer permissible under the terms of this
Ordinance as enacted or amended, such uses may be continued to long as they
remain otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Ordinance.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Ordinance.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more thirty (30) days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform
to the regulations specified by this Ordinance for the District in which such
land is located. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-
2022)
10-11-5-6: CHANGES IN NONCONFORMITY:
A nonconforming use of a structure or of a structure and land in combination
shall not be changed unless changed to a use permitted in the district in which
located; except that the Board of Adjustment may permit a change to a more
restricted nonconforming use and such change shall be construed as an
abandonment of the former permitted nonconforming use. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-
11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6: SPECIFIC DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
10-11-6-1: R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The R-1, Single-Family Residential District is
established as a district in which the use of land is for single family
residential purposes and uses directly incidental thereto. It is the purpose
and intent of this District to promote the development and the continued use of
the land for single-family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and industrial
use or any other use which would substantially interfere with or adversely
affect the desirable quality of a residential environment. The intent is to
further discourage any use in this District which would generate traffic or
create congestion on neighborhood streets other than t{'}'}te normal traffic
which serves the residents in the area.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in the R-1, Single-Family
Residential District may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above use
when located on the same lot.
      3.   Schools, public and private, where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public schools.
      4.   Churches on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
      5.   Public park, playground, fire station, community center or other
similar public facility.
      6.   Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for
commercial purposes.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: No dwelling structure or use shall be constructed or
commenced in the "R-1" District which does not conform with the following
minimum requirements for lot size:
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit Minimum Front (Feet)
Single-Family      6,000 Sq. Ft.                      60*
*   If the lot is a wedge-shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size, it may have less than the minimum requirement for frontage as long as
the front building line of the lot meets the requirements hereinabove.
 
   D.   Maximum Coverage: The maximum coverage of any lot in the "R-1" District
shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the area for interior lots nor seventy-
five (75) percent of the lot area for corner lots.
   E.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum requirements for yards shall
apply to any use that is constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the
"R-1" District:
 
Permitted Use Front Yard Side Yards Rear Yard
                         Both One
Single-Family 25'        10'  5'    20% lot depth
 
   F.   Height Limit: No dwelling structure in the "R-1" District shall be
constructed with a height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet from the mean low
elevation.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking as required in Article 4,
Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No dwelling unit in an "R-1" District shall be
constructed which is not provided with an effective connection to a public
sewerage system unless or until the County Health Officer certifies that a
septic tank or any substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed
on the lot. As a basis for making his decision, the Health Officer may require
such percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made
at the expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards,
or other similar matter shall be permitted in the "R-1" District except as
follows:
      1.   Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6) months to
advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale.
      2.   One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50) square feet may be
erected by each church.
      3.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
      4.   One (1) non-illuminated name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet
in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021;
amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6-2: R-2, TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The R-2, Two-Family Residential District is
established as a district in which the use of land is for two-family
residential purposes and uses directly incidental thereto. It is the purpose
and intent of this District to promote the development and the continued use of
the land for two-family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and industrial use
or any other use which would substantially interfere with or adversely affect
the desirable quality of a residential environment. The intent is to further
discourage any use in this District which would generate traffic or create
congestion on neighborhood streets other than normal traffic which serves the
residents in the area.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in the R-2, Two-Family
Residential District may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Duplex.
      3.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above use
when located on the same lot.
      4.   Schools, public and private, where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public schools.
      5.   Churches on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
      6.   Public park, playground, fire station, community center or other
similar public facility.
      7.   Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for
commercial purposes.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: No dwelling structure or use shall be constructed or
commenced in the "R-1" District which does not conform with the following
minimum requirements for lot size:
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit Minimum Front (Feet)
Single-Family      6,000 Sq. Ft.                      60 *
Two-Family         3,500 Sq. Ft.                      70 *
*   If the lot is a wedge-shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size, it may have less than the minimum requirements for frontage as long
as the front building line of the lot meets the requirements hereinabove.
 
   D.   Maximum Coverage: The maximum coverage of any lot in the 'R-2" District
shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the area for interior lots nor seventy-
five (75) percent of the lot area for corner lots.
   E.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum requirements for yards shall
apply to any use that is constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the
"R-2" District:
 
Permitted Use Front Yard Side Yards Rear Yard
                         Both One
Single-Family 25'        10'  5'    20% lot depth
Two-Family    25'        10'  5'    20% lot depth
 
   F.   Height Limit: No dwelling structure in the "R-2" District shall be
constructed with a height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet from the mean lot
elevation.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking as required in Article 4,
Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No dwelling unit in an "R-2" District shall be
constructed which is not provided with an effective connection to a public
Sewage system unless or until the County Health Officer certifies that a septic
tank or any substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed on the
lot. As a basis for making his decision, the Health Officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the
expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards,
or other similar matter shall be permitted in the "R-2" District except as
follows:
      1.   Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6) months to
advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale.
      2.   One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50) square feet may be
erected by each church.
      3.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
      4.   One (1) non-illuminated name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet
in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021;
amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6-3: R-3, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The R-3, Multi-Family Residential District is
established as a district in which the use of land is for residential purposes
and uses directly incidental thereto. It is the purpose and intent of this
District to promote the development and the continued use of the land for two-
family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and industrial use or any other use
which would substantially interfere with or adversely affect the desirable
quality of a residential environment. The intent is to further discourage any
use in this District which would generate traffic or create congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which serves the residents
in the area.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in the R-3, Multi-Family
Residential District may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Duplex.
      3.   Multi-family dwellings.
      4.   Rooming or boarding house.
      5.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above use
when located on the same lot.
      6.   Schools, public and private, where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public schools.
      7.   Churches on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
      8.   Public park, playground, fire station, community center or other
similar public facility.
      9.   Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for
commercial purposes.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: No dwelling structure or use shall be constructed or
commenced in the "R-3" District which does not conform with the following
minimum requirements for lot size:
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit Minimum Front (Feet)
Single-Family      6,000 Sq. Ft.                      60 *
Two-Family         3,500 Sq. Ft.                      70 *
Multi-Family       2,500 Sq. Ft.                      80 *
*   If the lot is a wedge-shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size, it may have less than the minimum 'requirement for frontage as long
as the front building line of the lot meets the requirements hereinabove.
 
   D.   Maximum Coverage: The maximum coverage of any lot in the "R-3" District
shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the area for interior lots nor seventy-
five (75) percent of the lot area for corner lots.
   E.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum requirements for yards shall
apply to any use that is constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the
"R-3" District:
 
Permitted Use Front Yard Side Yards Rear Yard
                         Both One
Single-Family 25'        10'  5'    20% lot depth
Two-Family    25'        10'  5'    20% lot depth
Multi-Family  20'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
 
   F.   Height Limit: No dwelling structure in the "R-3" District shall be
constructed with a height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet from the mean lot
elevation.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking as required in Article 4,
Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No dwelling unit in an "R-3" District shall be
constructed which is not provided with an effective connection to a public
sewage system unless or until the County Health Officer certifies that a septic
tank or any substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed on the
lot. As a basis for making his decision, the Health Officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the
expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards,
or other similar matter shall be permitted in the "R-3" District except as
follows:
      1.   Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6) months to
advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale.
      2.   One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50) square feet may be
erected by each church.
      3.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
      4.   One (1) non-illuminated name plat not exceeding two (2) square feet
in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021;
amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6-4: R-4, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The R-4, Residential District is established as a
district in which the use of land is for residential purposes and uses directly
incidental thereto. It is the purpose and intent of this District to promote
the development and the continued use of the land for mobile home trailer parks
and to prohibit commercial and industrial use or any other use which would
substantially interfere with or adversely affect the desirable quality of a
residential environment. The intent is to further discourage any use in this
District which would generate traffic or create congestion on neighborhood
streets other than the normal traffrc which serves the residents in the area.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Mobile home trailer park when in compliance with
Section 604.3 and Title 10, Building and Development, Chapter 7, Manufactured,
Mobile, and Modular Housing.
   C.   Mobile Home Trailer Park: Upon compliance with the provisions as set
forth herein, the Planning Commission may authorize a Mobile Home Trailer Park
within the "R-4" District.
      1.   The applicant, upon making application for a Zoning Clearance
Permit, must submit to the Planning Commission a detailed site plan locating
all mobile home stands, screening or fencing, and plans and specifications for
the proposed park in a form suitable for making the determinations required
herein.
      2.   The proposed site shall be a minimum of two and one-half (2-1/2)
acres in size and shall contain no more than fifteen (15) mobile home stands
per acre. The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of two hundred (200)
feet on a street designated as a major street or collector street in the
Thoroughfare Plan. All ingress or egress by automobile shall be on such
streets. The proposed site shall be a minimum of two hundred (200) feet in
depth.
      3.   The Mobile Home Park shall accommodate primarily permanent
occupants, with no more than forty (40) percent of the mobile home stands
devoted to solely transient purposes. These solely transient stands are to be
located in one area of the park so they will in no way interfere with the
permanent residents
      4.   The proposed site shall have a front yard of not less than-twenty
(20) feet from any mobile home stand to the street boundary of the park. The
site shall have side and rear yards of fifteen (15) feet from any solid fencing
or wall of six (6) feet in height, or forty (40) feet where only a screen
planting is provided.
      5.   The proposed site shall be screened or buffered. on all sides with a
solid wall fence six (6) feet in height or a well-trimmed, screen planting
which is not under three (3) feet or over, six (6) feet in height.
      6.   The proposed site shall provide one off-street parking space for
each mobile home stand, plus one additional off-street parking space for each
four (4) mobile home stands.
      7.   The proposed site shall provide a connection for each mobile home
stand to all public utilities considered necessary for the health, safety and
general welfare of the public. (Ord. 10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord.
06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6-5: C - GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The C-General Commercial District is designed for
the conduct of personal and business services and the general retail trade of
the community. It is designed to accommodate a wide variety of commercial uses
in the central business district or areas of mixed business enterprises.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in a C-General Commercial
District, may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Any of the following uses shall be permitted:
         Advertising Signs or Structures.
         Artist Supplies and Hobby Shop.
         Automobile, new and used, Sales and or service.
         Baker Shop.
         Barber and Beauty Shops.
         Boot Sales.
         Book Store.
         Bowling Alley.
         Clothing or Wearing Apparel Shops.
         Dance Hall.
         Department Store.
         Drive-in Restaurant.
         Drug Store.
         Dairy Products Store.
         Delicatessen.
         Florist Shop.
         Frozen Food locker.
         Furniture Store.
         Funeral Parlor.
         Garden Stores.
         Gift Shop.
         Golf Course, Miniature, or Practice Range.
         Grocery Store.
         Hardware Store.
         Hotel.
         Laundry and Dry Cleaning.
         Liquor Store.
         Medical Facility.
         Motels.
         Music, Radio, and Television Sales and/or Repair.
         Office, General.
         Pharmacy.
         Pawnshop.
         Pet Shop.
         Printing Plant.
         Public Uses.
         Restaurants.
         Roller Skating Rink.
         Self-Service Laundry.
         Shoe Repair.
         Sporting Goods.
         Sign Painting Shop.
         Tailor Shop.
         Tavern.
         Theater.
         Toy Store.
         Utility Service Installation.
         Variety Store.
      2.   Any retail, personal service, business service, professional or
commercial use not already mentioned.
      3.   Any public buildings or uses.
      4.   Buildings, structures, and accessory uses customarily incidental to
any of the above uses, provided that there shall be no manufachrring of
products other than such as are customarily incidental to retail
establishments.
      5.   Residential uses may be permitted in multilevel buildings provided
that the ground floor may onlybe used for commercial puqposes as set forth in
the C-General Commercial District (Section
10-11-6-5, Div. 1 - 4) and the municipal utilities to the multilevel building
shall be commercial rates. Multilevel building shall comply with all applicable
fire, life safety, and building codes.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: None
   D.   Maximum Coverage: The maximum coverage of any lot in the "C" General
Commercial District shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the area of the
lot.
   E.   Yard Requirements: None except where abutting a residential district in
which case a side yard set-back of one (1) foot shall be provided for each one
(1) foot of height.
   F.   Height Limit: No structure in the "C" General Commercial District shall
be constructed with a height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet from the mean
lot elevation.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking as required in Article 4,
Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No structure or use in the C-General Commercial District
shall be erected or commenced which does not have a connection to the public
sewer system, unless or until the County Health Officer certifies that a septic
tank or any substitute disposal system can be installed and operated
effectively. As a basis for making his decision, the Health Officer may require
such percolation tests as he deems to .be necessary. Such tests are to be made
at the expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: All signs in the C-General Commercial District
shall be erected upon private property and shall not encroach upon any public
street or walk except as provided by the applicable codes of the City of
Waurika, Oklahoma, and then they shall not overhang at a height of less than
nine (9) feet and shall not have a maximum projection greater than seventy-two
(72) inches.
      1.   Any projecting sign in the C-General Commercial District shall not
exceed fifty (50) square feet in size, nor shall it exceed the height of the
building.
      2.   No source of incandescent lighting used for illuminating signs shall
be directly visible from any street or highway or from any residence, hotel or
from any room used for sleeping purposes.
   C.   The use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with any sign
shall not be permitted within one hundred (100) feet of any intersection. Any
use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with any sign must be so
located that it in no way creates a confusion with any traffic signal or may be
interpreted by any motorist as a traffic signaling device.
   D.   Uses Permitted on Review: The following uses may be permitted on review
by the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions contained in Title
10, Chapter 9 of the Waurika Code of Ordinances: Storage Warehouse. (Ord.
10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022; Ord. 04102023-04, 4-
10-2023)
10-11-6-6: I - GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The purpose of the I-General Industrial District
is to provide a location for industries and to preserve such land for industry
that is most beneficial to industries and to prohibit non-industrial uses.
Because of the traffic generated and other objectionable influences which may
be created in this District, it is necessary to provide a buffer or setback
area between this District and any other zoning district.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in an I - General Industrial
District may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Any of the following uses shall be permitted:
         Automobile wrecking and junk yards, provided they are enclosed by a
solid fence of not less than eight (8) feet in height.
         Building materials sales.
         Bottling works, cannery, or preserving factories.
         Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
         Compounding, processing, and blending of chemical products, but. not
including any materials which decompose by detonation.
         Fuel sales and storage.
         General and administrative offices.
         Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops,
provided they do not include any of the following equipment: automatic screw
machines, drop forges or riveting machines.
         Mail-order houses.
         Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such processes)
products from wood, cork, glass, leather, fur, plastic, felt and other
textiles, but not including, as a principal operation, the processing of any
raw materials.
         Manufacturing and assembling electrical and electronic products and
equipment.
         Milk bottling and distribution.
         Milling companies and grain elevators.
         Motor freight terminals.
         Printing and binding plants.
         Research laboratories.
         Sheet metal shops.
         Sign painting.
         Utility service installation.
         Warehouses and storage facilities.
         Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs; and lift
stations.
         Welding shops.
      2.   Any other manufacturing process or establishment which can operate
in compliance with the aforementioned requirements.
      3.   Any public building or use.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: There are no requirements for minimum lot area in the
I-General Industrial District.
   D.   Maximum Coverage: Buildings shall not cover more than forty (40)
percent of the site on which the use is located.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No structure shall be erected, commenced, or
maintained which has a front yard setback of less than fifty (50) feet. A side
yard and/or rear yard of fifty (50) feet or two (2) feet of setback for each
one (1) foot of height, whichever is greater, shall be provided when adjacent
to Residential.
   F.   Height Limit: There are no requirements for minimum height in the I-
General Industrial District.
   G.   Off-Street Parking And Loading: Off-street parking as required in
Article 4, Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No structure or use in the l-General Industrial District
shall be erected, commenced, or allowed to continue which does not have a
connection to the public sewerage system unless or until the County Public
Health Officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for making his decision,
the Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he deems to be
necessary. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: In the I-General Industrial District, the use of
signs and billboards is the same as that set forth in Article 6, Section 604.9,
for the C-General Commercial District.
   J.   Uses Permitted on Review: The following uses may be permitted on review
by the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions contained in Title
10, Chapter 9 of the Waurika Code of Ordinances:
      1.   Cement, lime or gypsum manufacture.
      2.   Natural gas production and distribution.
      3.   Petroleum production and refining.
      4.   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane, or butane, or other
petroleum products.
      5.   Disposal plants of all types including trash and garbage, sewage
treatment including lagoons and compost plants.
      6.   Salvage yards for automobiles, building materials, scrap metal, junk
or any other kind of salvage; provided, however, that all salvage operations
shall be so screened by ornamental walls, fences or evergreen planting that it
cannot be seen by a person standing at ground level at any place immediately
adjacent to the lot on which the salvage operation is located.
      7.   Commercial Medical Marijuana Grow Facility; provided that the
operation is conducted in accordance with the provisions of the ordinances of
Waurika and the state laws and regulations relating thereto.
      8.   Any use not otherwise permitted by these regulations. (Ord.
10112021-08, 10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
10-11-6-7: A - GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The A-General Agricultural District is established
as a district in which the use of land is for agricultural purposes and uses
directly incidental thereto. It is the purpose and intent of this District to
promote the preservation and continued use of the land for agricultural
purposes, and to prohibit residential, commercial, and industrial use, or any
other use which would substantially interfere with, or adversely affect the
desirable quality of an agricultural environment.
   B.   Uses Permitted: Property and buildings in the A-General Agricultural
District may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Single-Family and Two Family dwellings for farm or ranch owner,
operator, or employee.
      2.   All agricultural or ranching land use buildings and activities.
      3.   Mining, quarrying and earth-extraction industries.
      4.   Oil well or gas well including the drilling thereof.
      5.   Transportation, pipeline and utility easements and rights-of-way.
      6.   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of farm products grown on the
premises.
      7.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses when located on the same lot.
      8.   Schools, public and private, where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public schools.
      9.   Churches on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
      10.   Public park, playground, fire station, community center or other
similar public facility.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size: There are no requirements for minimum lot area in the
A-General Agricultural District.
   D.   Maximum Coverage: Buildings shall not cover more than twenty-five (25)
percent of the site on which the use is located.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No structure shall be erected, commenced, or
maintained which has a front yard setback of less than fifty (50) feet. A side
yard and/or rear yard of fifty (50) feet or two (2) feet of setback for each
one (1) foot of height, whichever is greater, shall be provided when adjacent
to R-1, R-2, or R-3 Residential Districts.
   F.   Height Limit: There are no requirements for minimum height in the A-
General Agricultural District.
   G.   Off-Street Parking And Loading: Off-street parking as required in
Article 4, Section 6 of this chapter.
   H.   Sewer Service: No structure or use in the A-General Agricultural
District shall be erected, commenced, or allowed to continue which does not
have a connection to the public sewerage system unless or until the County
Public Health Officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal
system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for making his
decision, the Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he deems to
be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the property owner.
   I.   Signs And Billboards: In the A-General Agricultural District, the use
of signs and billboards is the same as that set forth in Article 6, Section
604.9, for the C-General Commercial District.
   J.   Uses Permitted on Review: The following uses may be permitted on review
by the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions contained in Title
10, Chapter I of the Waurika Code of Ordinances:
      1.   Lodge hall, veteran's organization, service organization.
      2.   Sign or display, not exceeding two (2) in number, advertising the
residential, commercial or industrial development of the land on which the sign
or display is situated. All signs or displays shall be removed immediately upon
completion of the development, but in no case shall they be permitted to remain
longer than three (3) years from the date of issuance of the special permit.
The type such as to not be detrimental to the use of adjacent properties, or to
restrict sight distance on public streets.
      3.   Airport or landing field.
      4.   Cemetery (in accordance with state law).
      5.   Kennel.
      6.   Radio and television station and transmission tower.
      7.   Stable, public.
      8.   Childcare center in accordance with the provisions of the City of
Waurika.
      9.   Drilling for oil or natural gas or the extraction of sand, gravel or
minerals; provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the ordinances of Waurika and the state laws and regulations
relating thereto.
      10.   Commercial Medical Marijuana Grow Facility; provided that the
operation is conducted in accordance with the provisions of the ordinances of
Waurika and the state laws and regulations relating thereto. (Ord. 10112021-08,
10-11-2021; amd. Ord. 06132022-13, 6-13-2022)
