WELLSTON, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-10-01, passed 10-12-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-10-01
AN ORDINANCE REPEALING THE TOWN OF WELLSTON CODE OF ORDINANCES IN ITS ENTIRETY
AND REPLACING IT WITH THE WELLSTON CODE OF ORDINANCES AS SET FORTH IN THE
ATTACHED EXHIBIT "A"; DECLARING AN EMERGENCY; AND PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY.
   WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of Wellston has determined that it is
necessary to repeal and replace the entire Code of Ordinances in its entirety.
   NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF THE TOWN OF WELLSTON,
OKLAHOMA, that
SECTION 1.   The Town of Wellston Code of Ordinances is hereby revoked in its
entirety.
SECTION 2.   That the Town of Wellston Code of Ordinances as set forth in the
attached Exhibit "A" is hereby adopted in its entirety.
SECTION 3.   The provisions of this Ordinance are severable, and if any part or
provision hereof shall be adjudged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such adjudication shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
parts or provisions hereof.
SECTION 4.   That an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and for the
provision of the public peace, health and safety, by reason whereof it is
necessary that all acts take effect immediately and be in full force and effect
from, and after the passage and approval.
   ADOPTED AND APPROVED and the EMERGENCY CLAUSE ruled on separately this 12th
day of October 2023.
                                       TOWN OF WELLSTON, OKLAHOMA
                                       A Municipal Corporation
                                       
ATTEST: (Seal)                              /s/ Paul Whitnah
                                       Paul Whitnah, Mayor
/s/ Jessica Couch
Jessica Couch, City Clerk
Approved as to Form and Legality:
/s/ William W. Wheeler
William W. Wheeler, Town Attorney
[Seal]
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   Altering code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Wellston Town Code” or other properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Wellston,
Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Lincoln County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk”, “Town Clerk”,
“Town Attorney”, “Fire Chief”, “Police Chief” and the like, they shall mean the
officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Wellston, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Town Board
after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect.
   (B)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed hereinafter is
invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all
valid applications which are severable from the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town
outside the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the
boundaries of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision
is limited to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and
include also the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of,
the town, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-110)
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Town
Board, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, are listed following the text of the code
section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01)”.
§ 10.20 ALTERING CODE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or
in any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any
act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where
no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of
this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine.
Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be punished as provided in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-108)
   (B)   Fines recoverable by civil action. All fines shall be recoverable by
civil action before any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any
other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine levied by court with non-lawyer judge, $40 after 10-1-1982, see
11 O.S. § 27-119
   Maximum fine levied in courts not of record, $100, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
   Maximum fine levied without jury trial, $70 as of 10-1-1982 ($35 prior to
10-1-1982), see 11 O.S. § 27-119
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS, PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election and duties
   
30.02   Vice Mayor; election and duties
Board of Trustees
   
30.15   General powers
   
30.16   Board of Trustees
   
30.17   Meetings
   
30.18   Rules of order and procedure
   
30.19   Trustees may be designated to perform duties
   
30.20   Election procedure; residency requirement
   
30.21   Compensation
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The
Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected and
qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or
she shall be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights,
duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
   (C)   During the absence, disability or suspension of the Mayor, the Board
shall elect from among its members an Acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Election of Town Mayor, Acting Mayor, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-104, 12-105
§ 30.02 VICE MAYOR; ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Vice Mayor.
The Vice Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of
Trustees meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as
practicable. The Vice Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been
elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Vice Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board of Trustees in
the absence of the Mayor. The Vice Mayor shall have all the powers, rights,
duties and responsibilities of a trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
   (C)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice Mayor, the Board shall
elect another Vice Mayor from among its members to serve for the duration of
the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2021-05-01, passed 9-9-2021)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.15 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101, the town shall
have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities
granted, or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory town board
of trustees form of government.
      (2)   These powers shall be exercised as provided by law applicable to
towns under the Board of Trustees form of government or, if the manner is not
prescribed, then in such manner as the Board of Trustees may prescribe.
   (B)   The powers, rights and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
Statutory reference:
   Town form of government, see 11 O.S. § 12-101
§ 30.16 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall consist of one Trustee from
each ward of the town. Each Trustee shall be an actual resident of his or her
respective ward. The term of office for a Trustee shall be four years beginning
at 12:00 noon on the second Monday following the general municipal election.
      (2)   The Trustee shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified. The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at the general
municipal election in 1983, the following officers are elected for four-year
terms: Trustees from odd-numbered wards.
   (B)   At the general municipal election in 1985, the following officers are
to be elected for four-year terms: Trustees from even-numbered wards.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
Statutory reference:
   Elections, see 11 O.S. § 16-205
   Governing board, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-102, 12-103
   Terms of office, see 11 O.S. § 8-102
   Vacancies in office of trustee, see 11 O.S. § 8-109
§ 30.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly as prescribed by
annual resolution or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Special meetings may be
called by the Mayor or any two Trustees. A majority of all the members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from day to day.
      (2)   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town
Hall unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place in the
town for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at
any other place within the town designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town hereby declares that it
shall not be governed by the state’s Town Meeting Act as a means of electing
its officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions.
      (2)   The town shall hereby elect its officers and decide initiative and
referendum questions through elections conducted by the county’s Election Board
pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 15-101 et seq.
(Ord. 88-1, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of trustees, see 11 O.S. § 12-107
   Open meeting and notice requirements, see 25 O.S. § 301 et seq.
§ 30.18 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance
of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all meetings of the
Board, regular and special, held within any period of four consecutive months,
he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   The order of business for each meeting of the Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Determination of a quorum;
      (3)   Reading and approval of the minutes;
      (4)   Readings of communications;
      (5)   Unfinished business;
      (6)   New ordinances and resolutions or other actions to be taken or
considered by the Board;
      (7)   Reports of committees;
      (8)   Remarks of personal privilege; and
      (9)   Announcements by the Mayor or other officers.
   (C)   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the Board unless two Trustees agree to waive the rule or rules:
      (1)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions
reduced to writing;
      (2)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall
entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the majority;
      (3)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated
by the Mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the Board and
cannot be withdrawn, but by leave of the Board;
      (4)   (a)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
            1.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
            2.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
            3.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
            4.   While a vote is being taken.
         (b)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which
the meeting is adjourned.
      (5)   (a)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received,
but:
            1.   To adjourn;
            2.   To lay on the table;
            3.   For the previous question;
            4.   To postpone to a day certain;
            5.   To commit;
            6.   To amend; or
            7.   To postpone   indefinitely.
         (b)   Which several motions shall have precedence in the order they
stand arranged.
      (6)   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      (7)   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      (8)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      (9)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put; and
      (10)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by
the presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated
unless under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
§ 30.19 TRUSTEES MAY BE DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give
each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such
Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
§ 30.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members who shall be
nominated and elected at large without regard to their place of residence
within the corporate limits of the town. Trustees shall be actual residents and
registered voters of the town.
   (B)   (1)   The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of four-
year terms and the number of unexpired terms, If any, to be filled. The
resolution shall direct that the ballot shall state the number of offices of
Trustee to be filled for each term and that the voters shall vote for the
number to be filled.
      (2)   Candidates for the office of Trustee shall file for a specific
term, which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy. Candidates
receiving the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected. If
more than one office of Trustee is to be filled for a designated term, the
candidates receiving the largest pluralities shall be elected to those offices.
(Ord. 2016-07-01, passed 7-21-2016)
§ 30.21 COMPENSATION.
   In order to provide for health coverage for the Trustees of the town a
minimum of 50% of the employee only cost will be paid by the town.
(Ord. 87-1, passed 1-9-1987)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds
   
31.02   Salaries; compensation
   
31.03   Oaths
   
31.04   Officers to continue until successors are elected and qualify
   
31.05   Board of Trustees may lay off, suspend, demote and remove
   
31.06   Other personnel
Town Officers and Personnel
   
31.20   Town Clerk
   
31.21   Town Treasurer
   
31.22   Town Attorney; appointment and duties
   
31.23   Health Officer
   
31.24   Neighborhood Services Officer
   
31.25   Town Administrator
Social Security
   
31.40   Declaration of policy to come under coverage
   
31.41   Execution of agreement with state agency
   
31.42   Withholdings
   
31.43   Contributions
   
31.44   Records and reports
   
31.45   Exclusions
Retirement and Pensions
   
31.60   Fund to be operated in accordance with law
   
31.61   Contributions to fund
   
31.62   Plans adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS.
   (A)   The Board shall require the Town Treasurer, the Town Clerk and any
other officers and employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to
give bond for the faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the
Board shall prescribe.
   (B)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
   (C)   The town may require the officer to secure the bond within ten days
after his or her election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
Statutory reference:
   Officers’ bonds, see 11 O.S. § 8-105
§ 31.02 SALARIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation of all elective town officers, including the
following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      (1)   Mayor; and
      (2)   Each Trustee;
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
   (B)   The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, and may be changed at
any time in the same manner. Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of
Trustees may determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and
employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
   (C)   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer elected
or appointed for a definite term be changed after his or her election or
appointment or during his or her term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited
by the Constitution Art. 23, § 10. This provision shall not apply to officers
chosen for indefinite terms, nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
Editor’s note:
   Increasing salary during term, see Oklahoma Constitution Art. 23, § 10
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of town elected officers, see 11 O.S. § 12-113
§ 31.03 OATHS.
   (A)   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the State Constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   (B)   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 31.04 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall
continue to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 31.05 BOARD OF TRUSTEES MAY LAY OFF, SUSPEND, DEMOTE AND REMOVE.
   The Board of Trustees or any other authority may lay off, suspend, demote or
remove any officer or employee whom it appoints or elects, or whose successor
it may appoint or elect.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 31.06 OTHER PERSONNEL.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as it
deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or resolution,
and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel at pleasure in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
§ 31.20 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
         (b)   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
         (c)   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be
provided by law or ordinance and have custody of the town seal;
         (d)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as
resolutions or ordinance; and
         (e)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance or by the Board.
      (2)   When the words “Clerk” or “Town Clerk” are used in this code or in
other ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the Town Clerk or
the Deputy Town Clerk unless another meaning is clearly indicated by the
context.
      (3)   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 8-106, the Town Clerk shall have the
authority to appoint one or more Deputy Clerks, subject to confirmation by the
Board of Trustees. Deputy Clerks may be removed by the Board of Trustees at a
regular meeting and such clerks may hold more than one office or position in
the town government as the Board of Trustees may ordain.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such
duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office
operations of the town as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. Said position
shall be filled by the person serving as the Town Clerk or otherwise provided
by the Board of Trustees. Said person shall be an employee of the town and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The pay period for such position shall be the same as for other
municipal employees. Benefits, holidays and sick leave for such position shall
be provided in accordance with any personnel policy of the town.
      (3)   The salary of the position shall not be subject to constitutional
restriction.
(Ord. 81-2, passed 1-22-1981; Ord. 85-1, passed 1-3-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk duties, see 11 O.S. § 12-109
   Election of Clerk, see 11 O.S. § 16-205
   Vacancies, see 11 O.S. § 8-109
§ 31.21 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source
all moneys paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any moneys
have been paid;
         (b)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
         (c)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance.
      (2)   The Treasurer’s books and accounts shall at all times be subject to
examination by the Board.
      (3)   When the words “Treasurer” or “Town Treasurer” are used in this
code or in other ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the Town
Treasurer or the Deputy Town Treasurer unless another meaning is clearly
indicated by the context.
      (4)   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 8-106, the Town Treasurer shall have
the authority to appoint one or more Deputy Treasurers, subject to confirmation
by the Board of Trustees. Deputy Treasurers may be removed by the Board of
Trustees at a regular meeting and such a Treasurer may hold more than one
office or position in the town government as the Board of Trustees may ordain.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
   (B)   (1)   The pay period for the Treasurer of the town shall be bi-weekly,
contingent upon the Treasurer’s performance of the statutory duties of the
office, pursuant to 11 O.S. § 12-113.
      (2)   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such
duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records of the town as the
Board of Trustees shall prescribe. Said position shall be filled by the person
serving as the Town Treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or other
action of the Board of Trustees. Said person shall be an employee of the town
and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The pay period for such position shall be the same as for other
municipal employees. Benefits, holidays and sick leave for such position shall
be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the
town.
      (4)   The salary of the position shall not be subject to constitutional
restrictions.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 1-22-1981; Ord. 85-2, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 2019-02-01,
passed 3-14-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of County Treasurer as Town Treasurer, see 19 O.S. § 645
   Town Treasurer duties, see 11 O.S. § 12-110
§ 31.22 TOWN ATTORNEY; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the services
of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The Town
Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the Board, all
officers, departments and agencies of the town government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He or she shall represent the town in
proceedings in the courts. He or she shall perform all services incident to his
or her position which may be required by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 31.23 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The County Health
Officer or any qualified personnel of the state’s Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 31.24 NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES OFFICER.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created within the town government the
employed position of Neighborhood Services Officer with the powers and duties
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Neighborhood Services Officer (NSO) receives and investigates
complaints concerning code violations, public nuisances (including weeds,
trash, neglected property, erosion control and the like) and prepares required
reports, abatement notices and other documentation necessary to satisfactorily
remedy or resolve problems identified. Investigation may include interviewing,
record searches, site examination, ownership documents, citations and
appearance as witness at court or Board meetings.
      (2)   The NSO tours the town’s jurisdiction, including public and
commercial buildings to detect unapproved or non-compliant construction, public
nuisances, use violations, unhygienic or hazardous conditions. The NSO also
initiates appropriate corrective action and conducts follow-up inspections.
      (3)   When required, the NSO inspects commercial and residential
construction and remodeling projects during their various phases to ensure
compliance with applicable building, zoning and safety codes, ordinances and
approved plans.
      (4)   The Neighborhood Services Officer also responds to questions
concerning the Interpretation, the requirements and procedures prescribed by
applicable codes, ordinances and laws pertaining to assigned municipal code
enforcement responsibilities. The NSO encourages public awareness of most
applicable municipal codes and ordinances, through active participation in
town- sponsored public information forums and interaction with the public.
      (5)   The Neighborhood Service Officer serves at the pleasure of the
Board of Trustees and is under the direct supervision of the Town
Administrator.
(Ord. 2018-12-02, passed 12-13-2018)
§ 31.25 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the position of Town Administrator,
an appointed officer of the town, an officer of the town that works at the
pleasure of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Manages governmental affairs of the town and works with numerous
departments, boards, authorities, commissions and public trusts;
      (2)   Reports to Town Board of Trustees regularly, but no less frequently
than monthly, regarding the financial condition of the town and the public
trusts of which the town is the beneficiary. Suggests changes and improvements
to programs and services;
      (3)   General supervision of department heads, providing support,
counseling and guidance as appropriate and advising as to compliance with
applicable laws and regulations;
      (4)   Evaluates department heads and makes recommendations to Board of
Trustees as to compensation and any other employment issues;
      (5)   Serves as administrative department head, supervising
administrative personnel;
      (6)   Makes recommendations to Board of Trustees regarding employee
actions (after consultation with department heads and supervisors as
appropriate) as well as contract personnel and professional consultants;
      (7)   Monitors all purchases and expenditures of municipal funds to
ensure compliance with budget;
      (8)   Coordinates the resources, activities and functions of the various
town offices, departments and trusts;
      (9)   Ensures that ordinances and policies of the town as well all
applicable state and federal laws are observed and enforced;
      (10)   Assures effective and efficient utilization of all town resources,
including employees, funds, materials, facilities and time;
      (11)   Coordinates overall operations of the town to assure optimum
services to the community; coordinates efforts with trusts benefitting the town
and with other entities and organizations; and
      (12)   Prepares and submits to the Town Board of Trustees reports as
requested.
(Ord. 2019-09-01, passed 3-14-2019)
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 31.40 DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE.
   (A)   Is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to extend,
at the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the town the
benefits of the system of Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance as authorized
by the Federal Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. Ch. 7, and all amendments
thereto, and 51 O.S. §§ 121 et seq.
   (B)   In pursuance of this policy, the officers and employees of the town
shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security coverage for local governments, see 51 O.S. § 125
§ 31.41 EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the state’s Department of Human Services to accomplish the
provisions of §
31.40 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
§ 31.42 WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purposes provided in §
31.40 of this chapter are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by
the laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
§ 31.43 CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
§ 31.44 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The town shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
§ 31.45 EXCLUSIONS.
   Excluded from this subchapter authorizing the extension of Social Security
benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
   (A)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; or
   (B)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-406)
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
§ 31.60 FUND TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW.
   The town’s firefighters’ pension and retirement system and fund shall be
operated in accordance with state law relating to the fund and system.
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters’ retirement and pension law, see 11 O.S. §§ 49-101 et seq.
§ 31.61 CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each
paid member of the Fire Department the amounts which are required by applicable
state law. If the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this division (A) shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote.
      (2)   (a)   The Treasurer of the town shall deposit monthly in the State
Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted pursuant to
this division (A). Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a Fire
Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll.
         (b)   The deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each
member may be able to ascertain the exact amount which he or she is
contributing.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the State Firefighters’
Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money which are required by
applicable state law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
   (C)   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the Town Treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board
the amounts of money which are required by applicable state law. These amounts
may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the State
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
   (D)   All assets of the Town Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Fund shall
be transferred to the State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board. Assets
shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such other
specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters’ pension law, see 11 O.S. § 49-122
§ 31.62 PLANS ADOPTED.
   Specific retirement and pension plans, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 2-7-1989; Ord. 94-1, passed 12-28-1993; Ord. 96-6-2, passed
6-25-1996; Ord. 98-11-2, passed 11-5-1998)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Organization of Municipal Court
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Jurisdiction of Court
   
32.04   Bond schedule
Municipal Judges
   
32.15   Judge; qualifications
   
32.16   Term of Judge
   
32.17   Alternate Judge
   
32.18   Acting Judge
   
32.19   Appointment of Judge and Alternate Judge
   
32.20   Salary and payments to Judges
   
32.21   Removal of Judge
   
32.22   Vacancy in office of Judge
   
32.23   Disqualification of Judge
Administration and Authority
   
32.35   Court Marshal
   
32.36   Clerk of the Court; duties
   
32.37   Prosecuting Attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
32.38   Bond of Clerk
   
32.39   Rules of Court
   
32.40   Enforcement of rules
   
32.41   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
32.42   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation; custody,
arrest
   
32.43   Summons for arrest
   
32.44   Form of arrest warrant
   
32.45   Procedures for bail or bond
   
32.46   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
32.47   Trials and judgments
   
32.48   Suspension of sentence
   
32.49   Conduct of sessions of Court; notice
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Criminal Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution, duly passed
and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-
102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal courts not of record, organization, rules and procedures, see 11
O.S. §§ 27-101 et seq.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the Town of Wellston.
   GOVERNING BODY. The town’s Board of Trustees.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Wellston, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of the municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 32.03 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 32.04 BOND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following bond schedule is adopted for Municipal Court.
   (B)   All bonds include Municipal Court costs of $55, CLEET fee of $10, OSBI
AFIS fee of $10 and OSBI forensic fee of $10. Total court costs and fees of
$85.
 Fee
                                                                 Fee
Actual physical control of motor vehicle while under the         $585
influence of liquor and/or drugs
Alcoholic beverage location/consumption involved                 $500
All other bonds for any violation not listed                     $260
Allowing animals to run at large                                 $385
Allowing livestock to run at large                               $285
Allowing passengers to ride outside of compartment               $185
Assault and /or assault and battery (misdemeanor)                $585
Assault on a police officer                                      $585
Attempting to elude or eluding officer                           $360
Being in actual physical control of vehicle while under the
influence
Burning trash/limbs                                              $385
Carrying weapons                                                 $300
Careless driving                                                 $260
Carrying a concealed firearm and/or weapon                       $260
Changing lanes unsafely, improper use of lane (includes center   $285
lane, turn lane, left lane)
Contributing to the delinquency of minor                         $385
Cruelty to animals                                               $385
Curfew violation                                                 $185
Depositing and/or destructive or injurious material(s) and/or    $560
trash on roadway
Disobeying posted traffic sign                                   $285
Disturbing the peace                                             $300
Drinking in public                                               $300
Driving in a manner not reasonable and/or proper                 $385
Driving left of center, in wrong lane and/or wrong direction     $285
Driving on left side of road in a marked zone                    $285
Driving on sidewalk                                              $285
Driving under suspension/revocation                              $585
Driving under the influence                                      District Court
Driving while impaired                                           $385
Eluding a police officer                                         $585
Expired license plate (failure to pay taxes to state)            $285
Failure to appear in court                                       $285
Failure to comply with compulsory insurance law                  $285
Failure to devote full-time attention to driving                 $585
Failure to devote full time and attention to operating a motor   $385
vehicle, resulting in an accident
Failure to dim lights when meeting                               $285
Failure to display lighted lamps when required                   $285
Failure to give way to the right when being passed               $285
Failure to obey a lawful order of a police officer               $285
Failure to obey lawful traffic-control signal, device or sign    $285
Failure to obey traffic citation, failure to appear              $285
Failure to obtain Oklahoma drivers license within 30 days        $285
Failure to pay all taxes due state                               $285
Failure to properly cover a load susceptible to blowing          $285
Failure to protect child under age 4 by use of restraint system  $385
Failure to protect child under age 6 by use of restraint system  $385
Failure to register vehicle within 30 days                       $285
Failure to secure load                                           $285
Failure to signal intention to turn right or left                $285
Failure to stop at stop sign                                     $285
Failure to stop for buses loading or unloading                   $585
Failure to stop/improper stop at a railroad grade crossing       $285
Failure to wear seatbelt                                         $20
Failure to yield                                                 $285
Failure to yield from a private drive                            $285
Failure to yield to emergency vehicle                            $385
Following to closely                                             $285
Front seat passenger not wearing a seat belt                     $20
Harboring a vicious animal                                       $585
Illegal entrance                                                 $300
Illegal tag display                                              $285
Impeding the normal and reasonable flow of traffic               $285
Improper backing                                                 $285
Improper movement from a direct course (to enter private drive,  $285
driveway)
Improper passing on the right                                    $285
Improper turns/u-turns                                           $285
Improperly driving onto or off controlled-access driveway        $285
Improperly parking in roadway                                    $285
Indecent exposure                                                $585
Insulting signs, literature or language                          $300
Interfering with a police investigation                          $385
Leaving a child or a vulnerable adult in an unattended motor vehicle in certain
weather conditions
   First offense                                              $50
   Second offense                                             $100
   Third offense or more                                      $200
Leaving the scene of a property damage accident                  $585
Littering upon a public street or sidewalk                       $285
Loud noise or music prohibited; amplified sound                  $285
Minor in possession of intoxicating beverage                     $285
No license plate                                                 $285
No state drivers license                                         $285
Non-commercial driver operating a vehicle while using a hand
held electronic communication device to manually compose, sent,  $300
or read a text
Operate a motor vehicle with defective equipment                 $285
Operate commercial motor vehicle without being licensed to do so $285
Operate motorcycle without proper endorsement                    $285
Operate unlawful vehicle on roadway                              $285
Operate vehicle at speed not allowing it to stop within assured  $285
clear distance ahead
Operate vehicle in violation of restriction on driver license    $285
Operating a vehicle without a valid drivers license              $325
Operating a vehicle without current license plates (decal)       $285
Parking in a marked no parking zone                              $285
Parking in handicapped zone                                      $385
Passing in a no passing zone                                     $385
Passing without sufficient clearance                             $385
Permit non-valid minor to operate motor vehicle                  $285
Petit larceny                                                    $500
Possession narcotics and dangerous drugs                         $585
Possession of drug paraphernalia                                 $585
Possession of marijuana                                          $585
Possession (exclude marijuana)
   First offense                                              $585
   Second offense                                             $585
   Third offense                                              $585
Possession of tobacco by a minor                                 $185
Possession with intent to distribute                             $585
Public intoxication                                              $285
Public nuisance                                                  $285
Purchase or possession of tobacco products by a minor
   First offense                                              $50
   Second offense                                             $100
   Third offense                                              $200
Reckless driving                                                 $585
Resisting arrest and officer                                     $585
Sell and/or furnish tobacco products to minor
   First offense                                              $160
   Second offense                                             $260
   Third offense                                              $360
Selling and/or furnishing of beer, intoxicating beverages to     $460
minor
Selling merchandise without city permit                          $285
Shoplifting, larceny of property                                 $260
Speeding in school zone or construction zone (1-10 mph above     $235
posted limit)
   11-15 mph over limit                                       $285
   16-20 mph over limit                                       $335
   21-25 mph over limit                                       $385
   26 + mph over limit                                        $585
Speeding; 1-10 mph over limit                                    $235
   11-15 mph over limit                                       $285
   16-20 mph over limit                                       $335
   21-25 mph over limit                                       $385
   26 + mph over limit                                        $585
Tampering with or damaging public utilities                      $385
Throwing object at property                                      $285
Transporting open container                                      $385
Trespassing                                                      $285
Unauthorized driving left of center on grades, curves, view      $285
obstructed
Unauthorized driving left of center within 100 feet of any       $285
tunnel, bridge, viaduct when view is obstructed
Unauthorized driving left of center within 100 feet of           $285
intersection/railroad crossing
Unauthorized use of a license plate                              $285
Unsafe turn at intersection                                      $285
Unsafe turn from direct course                                   $285
Use of ATV/UTV and golf carts on municipal roadway               $285
 
(Ord. passed - -2017; Ord. passed - -2022)
MUNICIPAL JUDGES
§ 32.15 JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge need not be a licensed
attorney at law, but, if not, he or she must be a resident of the municipality
of the age of 21 years, possessed of good moral character. A Judge who is a
licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he or
she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her duties as Judge,
or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within
the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein or which might become the
subject or proceedings therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 32.16 TERM OF JUDGE.
   Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until his or
her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 32.17 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There may be appointed for each Judge of the Court an Alternate Judge
possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge in this chapter. His
or her appointment may be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 32.18 ACTING JUDGE.
   If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge, who shall
preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 32.19 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and
shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting.
      (2)   Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 32.20 SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES.
   (A)   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body paid in the same manner as the
salaries of other officials of the municipality.
   (B)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set
by the governing body; however, payments to an Acting or Alternate Judge shall
not exceed the salary set for a Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of the state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal.
   (B)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
      (1)   The Mayor; or
      (2)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   (C)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the Judge shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Representation by counsel;
      (2)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him
or her; and
      (3)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (D)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the state’s
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309
to 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 32.22 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 32.23 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the court no change of venue shall be allowed, but
the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a Judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate or Acting Judge
appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY
§ 32.35 COURT MARSHAL.
   All writs or process of the Court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of the municipality, who shall be the principal
officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 32.36 CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk of
the Court. He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. He
or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct.
   (B)   (1)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or she shall pay to the
Treasurer of the municipality on the first and fifteenth day of each month all
money so received by him or her, except such special deposits or fees as shall
be received to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes.
      (2)   All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the Court Fund
of the municipality, or in such other funds as the governing body may direct,
and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance
with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
§ 32.37 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The Attorney for this municipality, or his or her duly designated
assistant, shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court.
   (B)   He or she shall also prosecute all alleged violations of the
ordinances of the town. He or she shall be authorized, in his or her
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this Court to any other court of the state, and to represent the
municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 32.38 BOND OF CLERK.
   The Court Clerk of the Court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
O.S. § 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body
for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of the
municipality and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 32.39 RULES OF COURT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of the municipality for the proper conduct of the business
of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 32.40 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District
Courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 32.41 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the municipality
shall be styled “The Town of Wellston vs. (naming defendant or defendants)”.
   (B)   Except as provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the
filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making
complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense charged and approved for
filing by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 32.42 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY,
ARREST.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of the municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number and registered license number of
the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information
and may issue him or her in writing in form a traffic citation embracing the
above information and also stating the traffic violation alleged to have
occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her
at a time specified in the citation. The officer, upon receiving the written
promise of the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as
specified, may then release the person from custody. If the person to whom a
citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a complaint
shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a non-resident or
resident of the municipality, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
Court; or
      (2)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving his or her
written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in division (A)
above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require, the
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A)
or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
§ 32.43 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, he or she shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Court on a certain day, after the summons is
served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent information as may
be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 32.44 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of
the municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest:
   (B)   It is the duty of a constituted member of the police force of the
municipality, or through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to
execute a warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 32.45 PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the Judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt of bail.
§ 32.46 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Judge, or the Attorney of the municipality, shall read
the complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and
sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is
not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the Court may proceed to try
the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 32.47 TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   (D)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   (E)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (F)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (G)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied. If the defendant is without
means to pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount
due to be entered upon the Court minutes and to be certified to the District
Court of the county wherein the status of government is situated where it shall
be entered upon the District Court judgment docket and shall have the full
force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies
shall be available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any
other judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 32.48 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
§ 32.49 CONDUCT OF SESSIONS OF COURT; NOTICE.
   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall conduct regular sessions of the
Municipal Court. Notice of the sessions shall be given as prescribed in the
state’s Open Meetings Law, 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Department created; Chief
   
33.02   Duties
   
33.03   Police officers
Fire Department
   
33.15   Department created; Chief
   
33.16   Volunteer Department; number of firefighters
   
33.17   Fire Chief
   
33.18   Assistant Chief
   
33.19   Company officers
   
33.20   Secretary-Treasurer
   
33.21   New members
   
33.22   Bylaws
   
33.23   Duties
   
33.24   Rules and regulations
   
33.25   Answering calls outside limits; contracts
   
33.26   Rates
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   (A)   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees and
removable by the Board.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is an officer of the town and has supervision and
control of the Police Department.
   (C)   All police officers are officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
Statutory reference:
   Police Department and duties, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
§ 33.02 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 33.03 POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of the town’s Board
of Trustees who shall perform such duties as shall be required of them by the
Chief of Police, town ordinances, federal, state and county regulations and any
other actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There is a Fire Department, the head of which is the Chief of the Fire
Department or Fire Chief, appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees, and
removable by the Board. The Chief of the Fire Department is an officer of the
town and has supervision and control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-201)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal volunteer departments, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-201 et seq.
§ 33.16 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; NUMBER OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the town is a Volunteer Fire Department which
has in its employ not more than two full-time salaried firefighters, and not
less than 12 or more than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 13-202)
§ 33.17 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief is at the head of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations herein adopted.
The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the Department, the training of members and the performance of all
other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (B)   He or she shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the Department,
the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice
each year to determine their readiness and availability for firefighting;
      (2)   To maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention
and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all
members;
      (3)   To make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers
and members in the performance of their duties;
      (4)   To see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the Department; and
      (5)   To see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case.
(Prior Code, § 13-203)
§ 33.18 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command the
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 13-204)
§ 33.19 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   The company officers shall be selected upon their ability to meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Their leadership ability; and
   (C)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13-205)
§ 33.20 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   One member elected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-
Treasurer.
   (B)   His or she duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 13-206)
§ 33.21 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   (B)   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation period, must
be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-207)
§ 33.22 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be dropped.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 13-208)
§ 33.23 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention and unless otherwise provided, to enforce
all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons from
fire and explosions in theaters, stores and other public buildings.
(Prior Code, § 13-209)
§ 33.24 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt rules
and regulations governing the Fire Department.
   (B)   All firefighters shall be of legal age, in good health and residents
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-210)
§ 33.25 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE LIMITS; CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Department in accordance with any regulations the
town’s Board of Trustees may prescribe may respond to calls outside the town
limits. In answering calls outside the limits or performing fire prevention,
rescue resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work outside
the town limits, the Department shall be considered an agent of the state and
acting in a governmental, capacity. The town shall not be liable for any act of
commission, omission or negligence in answering, returning from or performing
such work outside the limits.
      (2)   The property owner (whether it be of land or personal property)
shall be the person or company billed for the services performed by the
Volunteer Fire Department. The only exception to this billing is for services
performed on the Turner Turnpike for which the Oklahoma Turnpike Authority is
billed.
(Prior Code, § 13-211)
   (B)   (1)   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into
contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or
associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire protection
outside the corporate limits of said town, and to contract to provide fire
protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the
state.
      (2)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation or association, for outside aid or mutual aid for
fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said owner, firm, private
corporation or association, or political subdivision. All moneys received from
said calls shall go into the General Fund to be used to pay for Fire Department
expenses.
      (3)   The Fire Department of the town is hereby authorized and directed
to answer all outside calls within a distance of five miles from the nearest
fire station; unless in the opinion of the Fire Chief it is inexpedient to do
so on account of another fire in the town, broken apparatus impassable or
dangerous highways or other physical conditions.
      (4)   All firefighters of the Fire Department of the town attending and
serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of
the town, as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular
line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of
the town and said firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
firefighters’s pension and relief fund in the same manner as if the
firefighting or fire prevention work was being done within the corporate limits
of the town.
      (5)   The Fire Department of the town, answering any fire alarm, or call,
or performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
town shall be considered as an agent of the state and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and said municipality shall not be liable in
damages for any act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or
returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work
under and virtue of divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(4) above.
      (6)   All motorized equipment of the Fire Department of the town shall
have the right- of-way over all other commercial and pleasure vehicles.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 4-6-1985; Ord. 9-1, passed 9-1-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Mutual aid, answering calls outside limits, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 to 29-109
§ 33.26 RATES.
   (A)   The town desires to set the rates for fire apparatus outside of town
limits for those without a fire subscription.
 
Brush pumper                 $250 flat rate
Emergency management vehicle $100 flat rate
Engine apparatus             $300 flat rate
Per hour, per firefighter    $25
Response fee                 $500
Squad/rescue                 $250 flat rate
Tanker apparatus             $300 flat rate
 
   (B)   The town desires have all rates double during a burn ban, if it is
determined the fire was caused by human error.
   (C)   The Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and directed to sign all
documents necessary to expedite implementation of these rates for the town’s
Fire Department and recall all previous resolutions.
(Res. 2022-10-03, passed 10-13-2022)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Purpose of Emergency Management Organization
   
34.02   Department established
   
34.03   Director; duties; powers
   
34.04   Compensation of members
§ 34.01 PURPOSE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   A Emergency Management Organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town. The duties of the Emergency
Management Organization are the protection of the lives and health of the
citizens and of property and property rights, both private and public, and
performance of all functions necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-401)
Statutory reference:
   Local civil defense organizations, see 63 O.S. § 683.11
§ 34.02 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established, under the executive branch of the government, a
Department of Emergency Management which shall consist of a Director of
Emergency Management, who shall be appointed and may be removed with or without
cause by the Board of Trustees; and
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 34.03 DIRECTOR; DUTIES; POWERS.
   (A)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive head of
the Department of the Emergency Management and shall be responsible for
carrying out the civil defense program of the city. He or she shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the
performance of his or her duties. It shall be the duty of the Director of
Emergency Management as soon as practicable after his or her appointment to
perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter and
he or she shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or
other bodies and to appoint and designate the Chairperson or chief officer of
such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He or she
shall have further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense
agencies of other governmental units, including the state and the federal
government. The Director of Emergency Management is further authorized to
formulate written plans and gather information and keep written record thereof
to govern the functions of the Emergency Management Organization.
(Prior Code, § 13-403)
   (B)   (1)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting
from natural causes, the Director of Emergency Management after due
authorization from the Mayor shall have the power and authority to enforce all
rules and regulations relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control
of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or
she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental
agencies of civil defense organizations. If required by the Mayor, the Director
shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the
purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the town.
      (2)   The Director of Emergency Management and other members of the
Emergency Management Organization created by him or her shall have the power
and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town
during the period of emergency and shall at such time have the further power to
make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 34.04 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the Emergency Management Organization created in this chapter
shall serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal
or bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in
the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 13-405)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Finance and Budget Administration
   
35.01   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
35.02   Funds secured by Unit Collateral System
   
35.03   Contractual services defined for purchasing
   
35.04   Purchases, how made
   
35.05   When prior approval by Board of Trustees is required
   
35.06   Competitive bidding
   
35.07   When competitive bidding is not required
   
35.08   Sales; Board of Trustees to declare surplus or obsolete competitive
bidding
   
35.09   When competitive bidding is not required on sales
Internal Controls and Processing Methods
   
35.20   Payroll disbursements
   
35.21   Purchases of goods and services (other than payroll and payroll
related)
   
35.22   Interfund transfers
   
35.23   Debt service
   
35.24   Competitive bidding
   
35.25   Financial reporting
   
35.26   Applicability to public trusts
Town Fees and Fines
   
35.40   Fee schedule
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
§ 35.01 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   Banks and all savings and loan associations in the town which are
incorporated under federal or state law may be designated as depositories for
the funds of the town by the Town Board. The Town Treasurer shall deposit daily
all public funds received by him or her in such banks or savings and loan
associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits by treasurers, designation of depositories, see 11 O.S. § 10-118
§ 35.02 FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the Unit Collateral System
provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
Statutory reference:
   Unit collateral system, see 62 O.S. §§ 516.1 et seq.
§ 35.03 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES, for the purpose of this subchapter, shall mean
services performed for the town by persons not in the employment of the town,
and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in
connection with said services under express or implied contract. CONTRACTUAL
SERVICES shall include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage;
telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs,
alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges and
other physical facilities of the town; and other services performed for the
town by persons not in the employment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 35.04 PURCHASES, HOW MADE.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the town government shall be made by
the town’s Board of Trustees or by other town personnel in accordance with
purchase authorizations issued by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 35.05 WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES IS REQUIRED.
   Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than $1,000 shall require the prior approval of
the town’s Board of Trustees; and under no circumstances may such contract or
purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
§ 35.06 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services are made, as otherwise provided below, the
town purchasing authority shall submit to at least three persons, firms or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity to
bid; and/or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town.
   (B)   He or she shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the town when
this can be done without additional cost to the town; but he or she shall
submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when this may be
necessary to secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he or she
thinks that by so doing he or she can make a saving for the town; and shall
purchase from them when he or she can make a saving for the town. All bids
shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place.
He or she may repeatedly reject all bids, and again may submit to the same or
other persons, firms or corporations the request for quotation, or invitation
to bid, and/or again publish notice of the proposed purchase. He or she may
purchase from the bidder whose bid is most advantageous to the town,
considering price, quality, date of delivery and so on, and in case of a tie,
may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide the purchase among those
tying, always accepting the bid or bids most advantageous to the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
Statutory reference:
   Public competitive bidding law, bidding required on construction and public
works projects, see 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
§ 35.07 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may purchase or authorize the purchase of the
following, without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
   (A)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, the cost of
which does not exceed $1000,000 in a single transaction;
   (B)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   (C)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including government surplus;
   (D)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
   (E)   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
   (F)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when purchased
at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing agency or
any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   (G)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural and medical services unless competitive bidding is required by
applicable law or regulations, such as certain federal grants programs.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) (Ord. 7-107, passed 9-3-1998)
§ 35.08 SALES; BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE COMPETITIVE
BIDDING.
   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more
than $500 may be sold until the town’s Board of Trustees have declared them
obsolete or surplus. Before the town’s Board of Trustees sells any surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided below,
they shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town or give notice in such other manner as the Board of Trustees deems
necessary adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to
make bids. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The town’s Board
of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again.
The town’s Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials or equipment
to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In case of a tie, the Board of
Trustees may sell to either of the bidders tying, or may divide the sale among
two or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder or bidders
for cash.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
§ 35.09 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED ON SALES.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
   (A)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total value
does not exceed $500 in a single transaction; and
   (B)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the some.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
INTERNAL CONTROL AND PROCESSING METHODS
§ 35.20 PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   For all employees and officers of the town, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary for
each employee and officer.
   (B)   For each pay period, a record of time worked shall be prepared in the
form of time sheets or logs for each employee and officer to be paid. Such
record of time worked shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by the
employee or officer and the Town Treasurer.
   (C)   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll register including the
amount of gross pay, authorized deductions and net pay shall be prepared by the
Town Treasurer.
   (D)   The net payroll checks shall be prepared from the payroll register,
along with checks for payment of related payroll taxes and other payroll
benefits required by law or contract.
   (E)   The payroll checks and the payroll, register shall be presented to at
least one other authorized check signer who shall compare the payroll checks to
the payroll register and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, such other
authorized check signer and the Town Clerk shall sign the checks and prepare
them for distribution. The Town Treasurer shall then record the checks in the
appropriate cash disbursements journals.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.21 PURCHASES OF GOODS AND SERVICES (OTHER THAN PAYROLL AND PAYROLL
RELATED).
   (A)   The following employees or officers have been designated as purchasing
officers empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriation
accounts:
      (1)   Town Clerk;
      (2)   Town Treasurer; and
      (3)   Town Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   The officer or employee receiving satisfactory delivery of
merchandise or contract services shall acknowledge such fact by signing the
invoice or delivery ticket if applicable, must then be verified by the
authorized purchasing officer as to quantities, services and prices.
      (2)   If correct, the invoice must then be signed by the authorized
purchasing officer and coded with the fund(s) and budget line item(s) to be
charged.
   (C)   The Town Treasurer shall review all invoices for proper signatures and
appropriateness of fund(s) and budget line item(s) to be charged. Upon
acceptance of the invoices, the Town Treasurer shall prepare checks in payment
of the invoices and shall cancel each invoice as its check is prepared.
Invoices shall be cancelled by noting on the invoice the date paid, the check
number used to pay the invoice and the amount paid with the check.
   (D)   The invoices and checks shall be presented to at least one other
authorized check signer who shall compare the checks to the invoices and verify
their accuracy. Upon verification, such other authorized check signer and the
Town Clerk shall sign the checks and prepare them for distribution. The Town
Treasurer shall then record the checks in the appropriate cash disbursements
journals and shall prepare a check register. The check register shall list in
check number order the check date, check number, vendor and check amount.
   (E)   For all purchases of goods and services (other than payroll and
related) over $1,000, purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and
approved, in writing, by a designated purchasing officer prior to the time the
purchase commitment is made.
   (F)   For all purchases of goods and services over $5,000, purchase orders
or contracts shall be prepared and approved by the governing body prior to the
time the commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded in the minutes
of the governing body. Additionally, the Town Treasurer shall immediately
determine that there exists available unencumbered appropriation in the
accounts to be charged, and such determination shall also be recorded in the
minutes. Should appropriation not be available for the proposed purchase or
commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until necessary budget
amendments are authorized.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.22 INTERFUND TRANSFERS.
   All transfers between funds shall only be made in accordance with governing
body appropriations as reflected in the original or amended town budget. Once
lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made by the Town
Treasurer without further governing body approval in the manner used for
payment of purchases of goods and services.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.23 DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   All long-term indebtedness in the form of bonds, notes or lease
purchase obligations shall be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Once lawfully incurred, the Town Treasurer shall make payments of
principal and interest on the debt in accordance with the terms specified by
the lender without further approval of the governing body.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for
payment of goods and services.
   (D)   Current balances on outstanding debt shall be maintained by the Town
Treasurer in the appropriate journals.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.24 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The town shall adhere to the provisions of 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq. when
determining when competitive bidding is required and the manner in which
competitive bids will be obtained.
   (B)   If the town code provides for additional competitive bidding
requirements, such additional requirements shall be met.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, public trusts
created pursuant to 60 O.S. § 176, of which the town is beneficiary, shall also
follow the competitive bidding provisions of 60 O.S. § 176(g).
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.25 FINANCIAL REPORTING.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer shall prepare written monthly financial reports
which disclose at least all receipts and expenditures by fund in the same
format as the approved budget and showing the variance from the budget.
   (B)   The financial reports shall be placed on the agenda for acknowledgment
by the governing body at each regular meeting.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 35.26 APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC TRUSTS.
   (A)   For all public trusts created pursuant to Title 60 O.S. § 176-180, for
which the town is beneficiary and for which the Board of Trustees is comprised
entirely of members of the town’s Board of Trustees, all sections of this
subchapter shall apply.
   (B)   For the purposes of public trusts as defined above, TOWN TREASURER
shall mean Trust Secretary as defined by the trust indenture.
(Ord. 95-11-1, passed 11-7-1995)
TOWN FEES AND FINES
§ 35.40 FEE SCHEDULE.
Service, Good, License or Operation Fee Rate
Service, Good, License or Operation       Fee Rate
Abatement fees: Clean-up/mowing by town
on nuisance/abatement issues:
 Administrative fee                      $200
 Dump truck                              $100 per hour
 Heavy equipment (including tractor with $100 per hour
  mower)
 Hourly wage                             $10 per hour
 Pickup truck                            $50 per hour
 Push mower                              $50 per hour
 Specialized equipment/clean-up (may     To be determined
  require additional fees)
 Weed-eater                              $50 per hour
Building permits
 Carports/covered patio                  $35
 Commercial                              $100
 Demolition                              $25
 Driveway/sidewalk                       $35
 Fence                                   $15
 Residential                             $100
 Roofing                                 $25
 Storm shelter                           $25
 Swimming pool
  Above-ground/solid frame              $35
  In-ground                             $75
Bulk water (annual)
 Additional 1,000 gallons                $20
 Connection fee and backflow preventer   $75
  (first 1,000 gallons)
Rentals - community buildings
 Gazebo                                  $25
 Pavilion                                $25
 Senior multi-purpose building (deposit  $50 rent, $50 cleaning deposit
  returned if clean)
Rezoning/lot split/variance request(s)
(nonrefundable)
 Lot split                               $250
 Planning Commission/Board of            $250
  Adjustments
 Rezoning                                $250
Special occupations fee (annual)
 Brewer                                  $1,250
 Class B wholesaler                      $625
 Dispensary                              $600
 Distiller                               $3,125
 Mixed beverage license                  $1,000
 Oklahoma winemaker                      $75
 Rectifier                               $2,500
 Retail package store                    $200
 Retail package store (new)              $400
 Solicitation                            $25 per day, $50 per week, or $125
                                          per year
 Wholesaler                              $2,000
 Winemaker                               $625
Special permits
 Dog permit                              $10
 Special event                           $25
  Street bore/cut $5,000-bond or
 insurance with city as a certificate    $300
  holder
 Road use permit (UTV/golf cart)         $25
Water and sewer tap fees (full install)
 Sewer
  Four-inch                             $550
  Six-inch                              $700
 Water
  Three-quarter-inch                    $850
  One inch                              $1,180
  Two-inch                              $2,200
 
(Res. 2023-03-01, passed 3-9-2023)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Specific Taxes
   
36.01   Telephone exchange tax
   
36.02   Utility tax
Excise Tax on Personal Property
   
36.15   Tax levied
   
36.16   Exemptions
   
36.17   Time when due; returns; payment
   
36.18   Tax constitutes debt
   
36.19   Collection by retailer or vendor
   
36.20   Revoking permits
   
36.21   Remunerative deductions
   
36.22   Interest and penalties
   
36.23   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
36.24   Fraudulent returns
   
36.25   Records confidential
   
36.26   Provisions cumulative
   
36.27   Definitions
   
36.28   Classification of taxpayers
   
36.29   Subsisting state permits
   
36.30   Purposes of revenues
Sales Tax
   
36.45   Citation and codification
   
36.46   Definitions
   
36.47   “Tax Collector” defined
   
36.48   Classification of taxpayers
   
36.49   Subsisting state permits
   
36.50   Effective date
   
36.51   Purpose of revenues
   
36.52   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
36.53   Exemptions; sales subject to other tax
   
36.54   Tax due when; returns; records
   
36.55   Payment of tax; brackets
   
36.56   Tax constitutes debt
   
36.57   Vendor’s duty to collect tax; penalties
   
36.58   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
36.59   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
36.60   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
36.61   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
36.62   Fraudulent returns
   
36.63   Records confidential
   
36.64   Amendments
   
36.65   Provisions cumulative
SPECIFIC TAXES
§ 36.01 TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX.
   (A)   Fee levied on telephone exchanges. There shall be imposed a tax not to
exceed 5% of the amount billed to a service user for the tariff charges for the
356 exchange telephone service within said county, this area lying outside of
the corporate limits of the town, which tax shall remain in as such until a new
vote of the electors of the county is conducted as authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
   (B)   Fee to be in lieu of other fees, taxes.
      (1)   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this
chapter by the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall
be and continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise,
license, privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem
taxes.
      (2)   However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any
existing arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use underground conduit,
duct space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
(Ord. 10-6-94, passed 10-6-1994; Res. passed 1-3-1995)
§ 36.02 UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Utility tax levied. There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax
of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in
the town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license,
occupation or excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
   (B)   Not to apply to franchises. The tax levied under this section shall,
when levied, apply to all persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged
in business of furnishing gas or electricity within the town limits, except it
shall not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under
a valid franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
   (C)   Payment of tax. The tax levied under this section on gas receipts
shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and shall be payable
monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
   (D)   Failure to pay tax. Any person, firm or corporation failing or
refusing to pay such tax when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may
be ousted from such town and in addition thereto, an action may be maintained
against such person, firm or corporation for the amount of the tax, and all
expenses of collecting same, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-404)
   (E)   Tax constitutes lien. The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and
prior lien on all the assets located within the town of any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of selling gas within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-405)
Statutory reference:
   Utility tax authorized for municipalities, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
EXCISE TAX ON PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 36.15 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the municipality, an excise tax on the
storage, use or other consuming within the municipality of such property at the
rate of 4% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by
every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the municipality,
tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the municipality. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only
property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided that, the tax levied herein shall
not be levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use
outside the municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending
shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the
municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the tax
authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided that, the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a non-resident individual visiting in the
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the state’s Use Tax
Code and the town’s Use Tax Ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied
under the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to
its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the state’s Use
Tax Code and the town’s Use Tax Ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall
also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate
provided by both the state’s Use Tax Code and the town’s Use Tax Ordinance, and
the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed; provided
that, no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality,
if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in
Oklahoma and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality;
provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality. The
term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
the municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.17 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state’s use tax under the Use Tax
Code of the state.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.18 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.19 COLLECTION BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the State of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal
property from a place of business outside the state for use in the municipality
shall at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this
subchapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in
the manner and form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission
shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list
with the Tax Commission the name and address of all his or her agents operating
in this municipality and location of any and all distribution or sales houses
or offices or other places of business in the town.
   (B)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within the state, but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the municipality and by the out-of-state
place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at
such out-of-state place of business for use in the municipality.
      (1)   Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes, by the Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible,
personal property sold to his or her knowledge for use within the municipality.
      (2)   Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time the Tax
Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in the municipality; provided, however, that, in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the municipality by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or
vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased (not common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipality sales tax
at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.20 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in the
state, or both within and without the state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter,
Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax
Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by
order revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and
if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in
the state may, after notice and hearing above provided, cancel said
corporation’s license to do business in the state and shall issue a new license
only when such corporation has complied with the obligations under this
subchapter, the state’s Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the
Tax Commission.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.21 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the state’s Use Tax Code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.22 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter; provided
that, the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
      (2)   In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 227,
and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable provisions of
said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.23 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set fourth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.24 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   (A)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the
willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this subchapter shall be an offense, any upon conviction
thereof the offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$100 and costs.
   (B)   Each day of non-compliance with this subchapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.25 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the
state’s Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
municipality use tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.26 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.27 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state’s
Use Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this subchapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality government or the
official agency of the state, duly designated according to law or contract
authorized by law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
      TOWN. The Town of Wellston, Oklahoma.
      TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.28 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state’s Use
Tax Code.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.29 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the state’s Use Tax Code are for the purpose of this subchapter
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 36.30 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, passed 2-15-2001)
SALES TAX
§ 36.45 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Wellston Sales
Tax Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy (sales) taxes for municipal purposes, see 68 O.S. § 2701
   State Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 36.46 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state’s Sales
Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1352, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 36.47 “TAX COLLECTOR” DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used in this subchapter, means the department of
the town or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law
or contract and authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax
levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 36.48 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state’s Sales
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 36.49 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the state’s Tax
Commission pursuant to the state’s Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 36.50 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective as to each cent tax at least 30 days after
approval of a majority of the registered voters of the town voting on the
ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
§ 36.51 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is the purpose of the one cent sales tax to provide revenues for the
support of the functions of the municipal government of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 36.52 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 4% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the state’s Sales Tax Code
including, but not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
subchapter;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any message;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and the
service of printing or over-printing, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (H)   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or software
or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which pre-written programs have
been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
   (I)   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this subchapter;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racketball
or handball courts;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
persona) property, including rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered; provided, if the rental or
lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making
the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the
rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the
statement, bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred; provided, persons regularly engaged in the business of
exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed
under this subchapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect
to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or licensing of such
films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this subchapter;
   (S)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or not
same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery
business in the state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma business for
delivery in another state; provided, all orders taken outside the state for
delivery within the state shall not be subject to the tax levied by this
subchapter;
   (T)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salespersons, for resale where there is likelihood that the state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this subchapter because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (U)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
   (V)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairers, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 83-5, passed 11-8-1983; Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-87-
1993; Ord. 2000-3-1, passed 3-2-2000)
§ 36.53 EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the state’s Sales
Tax Code inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
      (1)   Sale of non-intoxicating beverages on which the tax levied by state
law has been paid;
      (2)   Sale of cigarettes and such tobacco products on which the tax
levied by state law has been paid;
      (3)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax,
gasoline excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
      (4)   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the state’s motor vehicle excise tax levied
by state law has been paid; and
      (5)   Sole of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This division (A)(5) shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
   (B)   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
      (1)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state, any political subdivision of the state or any
agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, state or any of its political subdivisions shall not be
exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
      (2)   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities
of the state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
      (3)   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools,
high schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for
teachers and pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for
profit;
      (4)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof; provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system; and, provided, such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
      (5)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
      (6)   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
      (7)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the town’s Board
of Trustees by organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the
Boy Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be
exempt from sales tax; or
      (8)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the state’s system of
higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with whom
any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of the state has duly entered
into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such public
contract. Any person making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency
of the state shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on
behalf of such subdivision or agency of the state and set out the name of such
public subdivision or agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously
certifies that purchases are for any of the above named subdivision or agencies
of the state or who otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined an amount equal to
double the amount of the sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than
60 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
   (C)   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
      (1)   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or
high schools in motor or other vehicles;
      (2)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $1, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of a
municipality, except by taxicab;
      (3)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $0.75. A carrier is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
      (4)   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling
the articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of the state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this subchapter. This exemption shall not apply
to the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salesmen who do not have an
established place of business and a sales tax permit;
      (5)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and
billboard advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic
media, including radio, television and cable television;
      (6)   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he or she
is regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the state’s Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to
grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or
vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
      (7)   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 O.S. §
353.1; and
      (8)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the
town from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas
and electricity, whether sold for residential or any other use after 12-31-
1980. The sales tax levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and
electricity shall be in effect regardless of any ordinance or contractual
provisions referring to previously imposed state sales tax on such items.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
   (D)   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
      (1)   Sales of agricultural products produced in the state by the
producer thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold
at or from a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
         (a)   Farm, orchard or garden products;
         (b)   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the
cows from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
         (c)   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; and
         (d)   The provisions of this division (D)(1) shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein.
      (2)   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs; provided that, the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
      (3)   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool-bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
         (b)   Feed purchased in the state for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
         (c)   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
         (d)   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
         (e)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such
as dogs, cats, birds or such other fur-bearing animals; and
         (f)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy.
      (4)   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         (a)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching. Each such
purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket
to be retained by the vendor, that he or she is so engaged in farming and/or
ranching and that the material purchased will be used only in such business;
         (b)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming and/or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the
vendor that he or she is engaged in the business of applying such materials to
lands owned or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in
the business of farming and/or ranching, and shall show in said certificate the
name or names of such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands
on which said materials are to be applied to each such land and he or she shall
further certify that his or her contract price has been reduced so as to give
the farmer or rancher the full benefit of this exemption;
         (c)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis shall not be
considered to be sales to contractors under this subchapter, and said sales
shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the meaning of the state’s
Sales Tax Code. As used in this division (D)(4), AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZER means
any substance sold and used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or
for promoting the growth and productivity of plants;
         (d)   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching. This section
shall not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and
sold for use in non-commercial flower and vegetable gardens;
         (e)   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person
regularly engaged, for profit, in the business of farming and/ or ranching. For
the purposes of this act, AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL PESTICIDES shall include any
substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying,
repelling or mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode,
fungus, weed or any other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life
or virus, bacteria or other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other
micoorganisms on or in living humans, or any substance or mixture of substances
intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
         (f)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the
purchaser where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production
of agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy
of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall
certify to the state’s Tax Commission that the contract price of the items has
been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by
the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor and, upon violation and
conviction for a second offense, the state’s Tax Commission shall revoke the
vendor’s sales tax permit; or
      (5)   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil,
lubricants and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm
machinery to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production,
cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation
or irrigation of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products
produced from such lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts
thereto or fuel must certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that he or she is engaged in farming or
ranching and that the farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used
only in farming and/or ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not
apply to motor vehicles. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy
of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall
certify to the state’s Tax Commission that the price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor and, upon violation and conviction
for a second offense, the state’s Tax Commission shall revoke the vendor’s
sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
   (E)   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
      (1)   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
      (2)   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same
with motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
      (3)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in the state, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in the state. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
      (4)   (a)   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged
in the business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for
the purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to
the consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles.
         (b)   Each and every transfer of title or possession of such
returnable containers in the state to any person who is not regularly engaged
in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty or filled
containers shall be taxable under this code. And, this exemption shall not
apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered along with items sold,
but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to the sale of the sold
merchandise; or
      (5)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in the state when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state.
(Prior Code, § 7-213)
   (F)   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this
subchapter:
      (1)   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
         (a)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this division (F)(1)(a), the term REORGANIZATION
means a statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation
of substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
         (b)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of
a corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
         (c)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the
property prior to the transfer;
         (d)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the property
prior to the transfer; or
         (e)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in
the dissolution of such partnership.
      (2)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 7-214)
§ 36.54 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the state’s
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)
§ 36.55 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the Tax
Collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the Tax Collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)
§ 36.56 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)
§ 36.57 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the town to collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this subchapter,
or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this subchapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any
person, firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be
collected or paid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
§ 36.58 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the state’s Sales Tax Code
for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)
§ 36.59 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the
delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his
or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-220)
§ 36.60 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-221)
§ 36.61 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227.
   (B)   To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-222)
§ 36.62 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this subchapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this subchapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine and imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-223)
§ 36.63 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the state’s Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax as
if here set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-224)
§ 36.64 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance
hereby authorize the town’s Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to
make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and
manner of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness.
   (B)   Neither the rate of the tax herein provided, nor the use to which the
revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the qualified electors of
the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-225)
§ 36.65 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
or all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-226)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Application for utility service
   
50.02   Separate service
   
50.03   Rights reserved to interrupt service
   
50.04   Damaging equipment
   
50.05   Interference with mains, fire hydrants
   
50.06   Tampering with meters unlawful
   
50.07   Procedure for governing board to set rates and charges
   
50.08   Utility fees and billings in general
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions pertaining to meters, regulations and payments, see
Ch. 52
Editor’s note:
The provisions of this chapter were adapted from the regulations of the prior
code of ordinances. Since the prior code’s publication, the town has adopted
and published the SOP (dated 7-1-2022), which is contained in
Chapters 52 and
53 of this code of ordinances. Where any provisions of this chapter conflict or
contradict the provisions of the SOP, being
Chapters 52 and
53, the SOP shall prevail.
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his or her premises
connected with any of the town’s utilities, water, sewer or trash collection
shall make application to the Town Clerk, shall sign a contract therefor upon a
printed form to be furnished for that purpose and shall pay to the Clerk the
regular fees and deposits for installation of the service.
(Prior Code, § 17-101)
§ 50.02 SEPARATE SERVICE.
   Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water, sewer or electricity to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-102)
§ 50.03 RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   Discontinuance of service, shut off of water supply or any other form of
interruption of service by the town shall be governed by the provisions of
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
§ 50.04 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, electric light wire, pole, transformer or other
electrical, sewer or water equipment erected or placed by or belonging to the
town.
(Prior Code, § 17-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to disturb, interfere with,
open, operate, close, turn on, turn off, attach any pipe or hose to or connect
anything with any fire hydrant, or stop any valve or stop cock belonging to the
town. However, this section shall not apply to any member of the Fire
Department when in the lawful discharge of his or her duties as such or to any
person endeavoring to prevent or put out any fire in any lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 17-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing
of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other
device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO SET RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Board of Trustees of the town, acting either as the governing board of
the town or as trustees of the Wellston Public Works Authority, shall establish
future rates, charges, deposits and fees for utility services by ordinance,
motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy of the current rates and
charges shall be available in the town office.
(Prior Code, § 17-108)
§ 50.08 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the town’s
sanitary sewer system, the town’s water facility system or the operation of the
town’s collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in accordance
with applicable rates set as provided in §
50.08 of this chapter. All fees and charges owing for any of these utility
services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each
month.
(Prior Code, § 17-109)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage Collection
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Accumulations of garbage, refuse
   
51.03   Collection of garbage, rubbish
   
51.04   Contract and disposal
   
51.05   Disposal
   
51.06   Fees
   
51.07   Duty to request garbage service
   
51.08   Charges to be on water bill
Trash Nuisances
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Nuisance declared
   
51.22   Removal of trash required
   
51.23   Notice, order to remove
   
51.24   City abatement; hearing
   
51.25   Affecting abatement; city costs
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
The provisions of this chapter were adapted from the regulations of the prior
code of ordinances. Since the prior code’s publication, the town has adopted
and published the SOP (dated 7-1-2022), which is contained in
Chapters 52 and
53 of this code of ordinances. Where any provisions of this chapter conflict or
contradict the provisions of the SOP, being
Chapters 52 and
53, the SOP shall prevail.
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including
all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and carcasses of small animals and fowls
from any premises within the town limits.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into
lengths not exceeding feet), leaves and the like from any premises within the
town limits.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger and/or heavier than refuse.
(Prior Code, § 17-401)
§ 51.02 ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE, REFUSE.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage or
rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order and
repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodent-
proof and fly-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which shall not be removed,
except when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with
handles on the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to
accommodate and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may
accumulate between collections; provided that, each container shall have a
capacity of at least one polycart, except where approved type bulk storage
containers are in use; and, provided further that, all containers shall be kept
clean and free from the accumulation of any substance remaining attached to the
inside of the container which would attract flies, mosquitoes and any other
insects.
   (B)   (1)   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for
collection, as designated by the town’s Board of Trustees, whereby collectors
can obtain same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced
yards with dogs.
      (2)   All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
   (C)   There shall be no open burning on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-402) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH.
   (A)   The town, or its authorized representative, shall collect from all
areas of the town not less than once weekly all, garbage and rubbish; provided
that, it shall be the duty of any person in possession or control of any
premises to place the containers required by this subchapter in a location
easily accessible to the collector.
   (B)   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge.
   (C)   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules, shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person.
   (D)   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the town’s Health Officer.
   (E)   Manure from cowlots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and
other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous and/or dangerous shall be removed and disposed
of at the expense of the person.
   (F)   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the town limits is prohibited.
   (G)   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering,
scattering contents or junking in any alley or street within the town limits is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-403) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONTRACT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall have authority to enter into contractual
obligation with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection
or refuse disposal for compensation in the town.
      (2)   The town shall be limited to contracting for such service to
contract only with persons having proper equipment, meeting State Department of
Health requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of refuse
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; and, provided further
that, the method of disposal contracted for must be in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Every person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal
of refuse shall have the right to make written application to the town and
shall make written application, setting forth the name of such person, the
residence address thereof or the address of the place of business, a
description of the equipment to be used in the collection and/or disposal of
such refuse, the place of disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced.
      (2)   Upon approval of application all bids will be considered six months
prior to the expiration of the then-existing contract, if any.
   (C)   Any person whose application has been denied may request, and shall be
granted, a hearing before the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-404) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
(Prior Code, § 17-405)
§ 51.06 FEES.
   There is charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set in accordance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 17-407)
§ 51.07 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town, it is the duty
of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the town at the
beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the garbage pickup and
collection service; provided, however, that, failure of any owner, rental agent
or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent, nor in any
way impair or impede the town from adding the address of such premises to the
proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures herein
prescribed and causing the fees or charges therefor to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 17-408)
§ 51.08 CHARGES TO BE ON WATER BILL.
   All bills for sanitary (refuse) service charges shall be included on water
bills, carrying the same due dates, grace periods and penalties as water bills.
All homeowners are required to have a minimum of one polycart.
(Prior Code, § 17-409)
TRASH NUISANCES
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPANT. The person(s) in actual or constructive possession of real
property.
   OWNER. The owner of record of real property as shown by the most current tax
rolls of the County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal or waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discharged or abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. passed 11-5-1998)
§ 51.21 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Trash which accumulates or exists upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or
along the unpaved alley or public easements adjacent to such lot, tract or
parcel of land, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-502) (Ord. passed 11-5-1998)
§ 51.22 REMOVAL OF TRASH REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel
of land to allow trash to accumulate or exist upon such premises, or along the
unpaved street, unpaved alleys or public easements adjacent to such premises,
and it shall be the duly of such owner or occupant to remove any and all trash
on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-503) (Ord. passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 NOTICE, ORDER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Whenever the town shall determine that the accumulation or existence
of trash constitutes a threat to the public health, comfort, safety or welfare,
the town shall give at least ten days’ notice to the owner of the property by
mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office before the town holds a hearing or takes action. The notice
shall order to clean the property of trash, and said notice shall further state
that unless such work is preformed within ten days of the date of the notice
the work shall be done by the city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the
County Clerk, against the property for the costs due and owing the city. At the
time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the town shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the
property owner cannot be located within ten days from the date of mailing by
the town, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property
or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one time not less than ten
days prior to any hearing or action by the town. If the town anticipates
summary abatement of the nuisance in accordance with the provisions of division
(B) below, the notice, whether by certified mail, posting or publication, shall
state:
      (1)   Any accumulations of trash on the owner’s property occurring within
six months after the removal of trash on the property pursuant to such notice
may be summarily abated by the city;
      (2)   The costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner;
and
      (3)   A lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all
without further prior notice to the properly owner.
   (B)   If the town causes property within the municipal limits to be cleaned
of trash, any subsequent accumulations of trash on the property occurring
within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily
abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each
such summary abatement, the town shall notify the property owner of the
abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner
may request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing the notice. The
notice and hearing shall be as provided for in §
51.24 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-504) (Ord. passed 11-5-1998)
§ 51.24 CITY ABATEMENT; HEARING.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent authorizing the city to abate the
nuisance under §
51.21 of this chapter. Such consent shall waive his or her right to a hearing
under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and
order provided for in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the
town, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the determination
that a nuisance exists upon his or her property.
      (2)   The town shall conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable.
   (C)   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel; to present testimony, other evidence and arguments; and to cross-
examine witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the town, after
such hearing, shall determine that the trash accumulated or existing upon the
property in question constitutes a nuisance detrimental to health or
constitutes a fire or traffic hazard, and shall determine that the person or
persons requesting such hearing are owners of the property upon which such
nuisance is located, he or she shall file in writing his or her findings of
fact, and his or her order that such nuisance be abated within ten days, and
shall cause such findings and order to be served upon such owner at the
conclusion of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-505) (Ord. passed 11-5-1998)
§ 51.25 AFFECTING ABATEMENT; CITY COSTS.
   (A)   Abatement by city generally.
      (1)   In the event that the following, then the town may cause such
nuisance to be abated forthwith by removing same, in as many instances as may
be necessary for continued abatement of the nuisance, and may cause a complaint
to be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court for violation of
provisions of this subchapter, or both:
         (a)   No hearing shall have been requested as provided for in this
chapter;
         (b)   The town, after such hearing, shall have ordered such nuisance
to be abated as aforesaid; and
         (c)   Such nuisance shall not have been abated within the respective
period specified.
      (2)   To effect abatement, the town may cause the nuisance to be abated
by employees for the city or, in the alternative, the town may prepare
appropriate specifications, advertise for bids and award a contract for such
abatement to the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance,
in each and every instance, where abated, shall be borne by the property owner
and shall be assessed as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-507)
   (B)   Collection of city’s costs.
      (1)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located
has failed or refused to abate said nuisance, the town shall cause said
nuisance to be abated either by employees for the town or, in the alternative,
by the contractor who has submitted the lowest and best bid for such work. The
actual and necessary costs required to be expended by the town together with
such administrative expense for mailing of notices and the like, said
administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the general
schedule of fees, and the total of said costs, shall be certified to the office
of the town, who shall be responsible for billing all of said costs to the
property owner.
      (2)   The town shall forward, by mail, to the property owner at the
address specified in §
51.23 of this chapter a statement setting forth the total costs for removal of
trash and demanding payment. If payment is not made within 30 days from the
date of the mailing of the statement, the town shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in
which the property is located and such costs shall be a lien against the
property, until paid, and shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes against the property, and when collected shall be paid to the town until
fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation
of the property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-508)
(Ord. passed 11-5-1998)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through 51.09 of this chapter shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-401)
   (C)   (1)   Any owner or occupant who shall violate any of the provisions of
§§
51.20 through 51.26 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of an offense against the city. Each day’s continuous violation shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   The provisions of §§
51.20 through 51.26 of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-509)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Connections made in accordance with ordinance, law
Application Procedure
   
52.015   Application to make connection to water mains
   
52.016   WPWA utility application procedure
   
52.017   Contract for water service
   
52.018   Meter boxes
   
52.019   Connect and disconnect service
   
52.020   Denial of service to a customer
   
52.021   Notification of deceased customer
Meter and Service Regulations
   
52.035   Meter tampering
   
52.036   Removal of meters
   
52.037   Notification of inaccessible meter
   
52.038   Customer responsibility for meter
   
52.039   Inspection of Department’s property
   
52.040   Statement for service rendered
Charges and Payment Procedures
   
52.055   Discontinuance of service for failure to pay
   
52.056   Delinquent payment charge
   
52.057   Temporary services
   
52.058   Charge for moving facilities
   
52.059   Water deposit required; security deposits
   
52.060   Returned checks; service charge and collection
   
52.061   Payment options
   
52.062   Shut-off for non-payment
   
52.063   Collection policy for Department of Utilities’ billing office
   
52.064   Dispute procedure
Water Policies
   
52.075   Water shortages; restrictions; proclamation and notice; grievances
   
52.076   Water main extensions
   
52.077   Water meter taps
   
52.078   Water line extension charge
   
52.079   WPWA line extension exemption policy
   
52.080   Water leak policy
   
52.081   Water meter installation procedure
   
52.082   Bulk water
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicated or required a different meaning.
   BILL. The monthly statement of account, payable as rendered on a regularly
designated date to each customer.
   BILLING PERIOD. May be referred to as “month” or “billing month”. The intent
is to represent a period or approximately 30 days between regular meter
readings irrespective calendar months.
   CUSTOMER. An individual, firm or corporation at the single address or
location receiving one class of service and one kind of commodity.
   DEPARTMENT. Wellston Public Works Authority (WPWA).
   DISCONNECT. Permanent.
   UTILITY/BILLING CLERK. The person responsible for the administration of the
Wellston Public Works Authority utilities.
   METER DEPOSIT. The amount of money or security required by the Department to
be deposited by the customer to guarantee payment of bills for service
rendered.
   RATE/RATE SCHEDULE. The rates published by WPWA which applies to the
commodity being considered.
   SHUT OFF FOR NON-PAY. A temporary interruption of service until current bill
is paid in full, including fees.
   UTILITY DEPARTMENT. The Wellston Public Works Authority, which is comprised
of the administration, water and wastewater division, and garbage service;
wherever in these regulations the word “Department” is used, it shall mean the
UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   WPWA. The Wellston Public Works Authority. See the definitions of
“Department” and “Utility Department” above.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.002 CONNECTIONS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE, LAW.
   Any person, firm or corporation who connects to the water mains of the town
in violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the town or the laws of the
state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-202)
APPLICATION PROCEDURE
§ 52.015 APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Every customer, before obtaining service, will be required to execute
a written application upon the Department standard form providing for service
at the rates they enforce and shall be governed by the current policies and
procedures of the Department.
   (B)   The proper application for service when made by the customer and
accepted by the Department shall constitute a contract.
   (C)   All applications for service shall be in the true name(s) of the party
(ies) listed on the rental agreement or deed who will be using the service. In
case of any violation of this provision, the Department may discontinue service
to such customer immediately.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 WPWA UTILITY APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   New customer. To apply for a connection, as described in §
52.015, new applicants shall:
      (1)   Fill out and sign a utility application (residential or commercial
accordingly);
      (2)   Provide a copy of the deed or rental agreement;
      (3)   Present a valid driver’s license or state/federal issue photo ID. A
copy shall be made and placed with the utility application. If the account is a
joint account, a copy of both applicants’ driver’s license or state/federal
issue photo IDs will be required;
      (4)   Provide a signature on all applications. If requesting a joint
account, both applicants must sign the application. Any signature not signed in
front of a WPWA employee must be notarized;
      (5)   Pay required deposits in full; and
      (6)   File applications and copies thereof in the utility office.
   (B)   Existing customer moving to a new address.
      (1)   To move an existing connection to another address, existing
customers shall:
         (a)   Complete a new application, along with new rental agreement or
deed; and
         (b)   Pay a transfer fee of $50 and bring the deposit to current rate.
      (2)   As long as the existing customer is turning off the service of the
old property within three business days, the deposit shall be transferred to
the new account.
      (3)   If the existing customer wishes to keep the old service on longer,
he or she required to put up a new deposit on the new account. The deposit on
the old account will be applied to the final bill and any credit refunded once
the service is closed out.
   (C)   Change of address or other contact information. If a customer wishes
to change the information on he or she account, such as phone number and/or
mailing address:
      (1)   If the customer calls in:
         (a)   The customer will be asked for the account number;
         (b)   If the customer does not know or have the account number, the
customer will be asked for the name the account is under;
         (c)   The customer will be asked questions regarding the account that
would not be found in a lost or stolen wallet, such as last payment amount on
the account or the last billed amount, any co-applicant listed on the account,
as well as identifying information, such as a Social Security number; and
         (d)   Once confident with the identification of the caller, the
changes will be made to the account.
      (2)   If the request is received in the mail:
         (a)   The signature on the letter will be verified against the
signature on the application, or the customer is contacted utilizing the
contact information on record; and
         (b)   Once verified, the changes will be made to the account.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.017 CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part
of the person making the application:
      (1)   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance
at the time the water is consumed;
      (2)   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance
at any time;
      (3)   Stating that the town shall not be responsible for any damage by
water or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that
the fact that an agent of the town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall
not be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
      (4)   Providing that, the town shall not be liable for damages resulting
from the interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the
cause thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall
not be held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town, nor
relieve the consumer from performing the obligations of his or her contract;
and
      (5)   Providing that, the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer; and, providing further that, unless the water
deposit is claimed by the consumer within six months after the consumer ceases
to use the water or within six months after the water is turned off for any
cause by the town, then the consumer forfeits all right, title or interest in
and to the water deposit.
(Prior Code, § 17-204)
   ( B )    A contract for an agreement of payment shall be as follows.
Town of Wellston
Wellston Public Works Authority
Agreement for Payment Contract
I hereby acknowledge that my account for utility services with the Wellston
Public Works Authority has an outstanding delinquent balance in the amount of
$______________. In order to continue to receive utility service, I hereby pay
$___________________________ and agree to make payments of:
$___________________ plus current bill for the next _________________ months.
I understand that, if I fail to make payments as agreed, herein, department
may, at its option, declare this agreement null and void and begin proceedings
to terminate my utility service within a reasonable time.
It is further understood that any payment made under this agreement is in
addition to my regular utility bill and nothing herein relieves me from my
obligation to pay in full any such bill as it comes due.
It is further understood that this payment arrangement does not exclude the
account from any late fees.
Approved by:
___________________________________         ________________________________
Utility Clerk                     Date
____________________________________      ________________________________
Customer                     Date
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.018 METER BOXES.
   (A)   The Water Department will run its service and set a meter box. The
location of the meter box will be determined by the Utility Department
depending on the size of the meter to be installed and the department supply
lines. Appropriate charges will be paid by the customer as outlined in the
service charge section of this manual.
   (B)   The Water Department reserves the right to determine the size and
designate the location of the water meter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.019 CONNECT AND DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever an application for service has been accepted by the billing
office, the service will be turned on with payment of deposits and/or a
transfer fee. This service is performed only upon the instruction of and in the
presence of the customer, or authorized agent. It shall be the consumers’
responsibility to see that all water piping, plumbing fixtures and apparatus
are in good condition.
   (B)   Employees of the Department shall have the right to enter upon all
premises served by said Department for the purpose of reading meters,
connections or plumbing in order to ascertain whether or not all utilities are
being properly metered and for any purpose that may be necessary to maintain
proper service; this only includes the portion up to and including the meter.
Any and all lines after the meter are the responsibility of the customer.
   (C)   Water service shall be discontinued for any customer wanting to
discontinue the service upon request made to the office by the customer on the
account.
   (D)   The Department does not assume any liability or responsibility for
loss of water or damage to property caused by open or defective piping,
freezing or the like for discontinuance of water.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.020 DENIAL OF SERVICE TO A CUSTOMER.
   (A)   Service may be refused to a customer when there remains an unpaid
account for service previously provided. The Department shall not be required
to provide service to an applicant who uses an alias, trade name, business name
or the name of a relative or other person as a devise to escape payment of an
unpaid obligation. Utility service shall be denied or discontinued for any
person, persons, groups or businesses who have any delinquent account(s) and
are a recipient, beneficiary or consumer of commodity, whether or not such
account is under another name.
   (B)   A new tenant of a rental property will be denied service, if a service
location has a known leak, until the landlord presents proof of repairs.
   (C)   No person, persons, groups or businesses can move from one location
with an unpaid bill and have service connected in a new location. If any person
has a delinquent account, he or she shall be required to pay the bill in full.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.021 NOTIFICATION OF DECEASED CUSTOMER.
   (A)   If the deceased was the primary account holder, contract of deceased
customer is null and void. After notification of death, a relative’s power of
attorney becomes null and void. The personal representative of the estate has
the obligation to take care of the account. WPWA will require a copy of the
death certificate, or court papers showing a court appointed representative, if
it applies. In either situation, the WPWA Utility Department will need new
contact information and billing address for the personal representative within
90 days (this will be handled as a name change only). If the personal
representative is not willing to do this, the Department will disconnect the
service until all charges are paid in full. No service will be set at this
address until previous owner’s (deceased) account is paid in full, unless the
property has been sold or transferred to a new customer.
   (B)   If there is a surviving spouse or other surviving occupant listed on
the account, if other person(s) are signatories on the account, then said
person(s) are required to update the account by providing proof of death-by-
death certificate or obituary and updating all contact information. If other
person(s) are not signatories on the account but show proof of award of the
property to them by official Court Documents, it can be handled as a name
change only. If the other person(s) are not signatories on the account and have
no official court documentation, then said person(s) are required to fill out a
new application and required to put up new deposits. The existing deposit will
be applied to the account, and a refund check, if any, will be issued in the
name of the deceased occupant and can be handled by the estate. If a remaining
bill is owed after the deposit is applied, it will be mailed, and can be
handled by the estate as well.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
METER AND SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 52.035 METER TAMPERING.
   In case of bypassing, or a meter that has been shut off for non-pay or any
other reason by WPWA and is found to have been turned on by someone other than
a WPWA authorized personnel, a complaint shall be signed by WPWA manager or his
or her authorized agent against the party responsible. TAMPER shall include,
but not be limited to, attaching any piper, wire or other conduit or thing onto
any utility or to turn on or off any such service, break or deface.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.036 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   (A)   All meters shall remain the property of the Department and may be
removed from the customer’s premises at any time without notice for the purpose
of testing or repairing the same or upon discontinuance of the service.
   (B)   WPWA reserves the right to suspend delivery of water at any time
without notice for the purpose of making repairs or extensions and WPWA shall
not be liable for damages because of such interruption of service.
   (C)   Upon discovery of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her agency
or employee herein prohibited, or upon failure to comply with any of the
policies and procedures of WPWA, such service will be discontinued, and
applicable fees applied.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 NOTIFICATION OF INACCESSIBLE METER.
   (A)   A notice will be hung on the door, informing the customer of the
reason the meter was not read and if the problem is not corrected before next
reading cycle, service will be disconnected.
   (B)   Also, if not corrected within a certain time frame, anything
obstructing the reading of the meter will be removed at the expense of the
customer.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.038 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY FOR METER.
   (A)   The customer shall be held responsible for any damage done to meters
installed on his or her premises whether such damage is caused by malicious
intent, or any other cause, except ordinary wear and tear. This includes the
customer turning the meter on or off by himself or herself.
   (B)   No customer or other persons shall repair or remove any meter or break
any seal without authority from the Utility Department, nor tamper with or
interfere with the operation of any meter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.039 INSPECTION OF DEPARTMENT’S PROPERTY.
   WPWA shall have the right to enter upon the premises of the consumer at all
reasonable and ordinary hours for the purpose of inspecting, testing,
repairing, removing or exchanging all equipment belonging to WPWA and used in
connection with its water or sewer service, and removing its property on the
termination of the contract and agreement, or the discontinuance of service for
any cause whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.040 STATEMENT FOR SERVICE RENDERED.
   (A)   (1)   A statement (monthly bill) shall be mailed to each consumer or
to such person as he or she shall direct once a month for service rendered the
previous month.
      (2)   The statement shall show meter readings, consumption, due date (the
fifteenth day of each month) and net charges.
   (B)   The failure of any customer to receive a statement for any utility
charges provided for in this section shall not excuse the customer from his or
her obligation to pay such charges within the time specified in this section.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
CHARGES AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES
§ 52.055 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Utility Clerk or his or her designee to
cause any utility furnished to any person to be disconnected and discontinued
without further notice, if such person shall fail, refuse or neglect to pay.
   (B)   (1)   The Utility Clerk or his or her designee shall, at the time of
making such disconnection and discontinuance, compute the amount due WPWA with
the penalty thereon, and shall credit the account with any moneys, credit or
deposit in the hands of WPWA deposited with any such persons as a meter
deposit.
      (2)   If, therefore, any such person shall request WPWA to furnish him or
her the public utility that has been discontinued or disconnected, before being
connected with such public utility, such person shall pay all charges in
arrears to WPWA for making such connection and shall deposit such additional
sum as a meter deposit as is required by WPWA.
      (3)   After a customer has had discontinuance due to failure to pay and
had deposits applied and the account closed out, the customer will be required
to put up the amount of the regular stipulated deposit amount. If no attempt is
made to bring the account current and restart service, the collections
procedures in §
52.063 will apply.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.056 DELINQUENT PAYMENT CHARGE.
   (A)   All accounts for water, trash and sewer furnished by WPWA shall be due
and payable monthly on or before the due date printed on the customer bill (on
the fifteenth day of the month). A delinquent payment charge of 10% shall be
added to the statement, to reflect the amount due after the due date, and an
additional $10 penalty after the twentieth day of the month. Service shall be
disconnected after the twenty-fifth day of the month and a $50 reconnect fee
will be charged.
   (B)   The Department reserves the right to refuse service to a customer at
any address until all delinquent bills of such customer for trash, water, and
sewer services are paid.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 TEMPORARY SERVICES.
   When a consumer requests, the Department can do a courtesy turn on for up to
three days to check for leaks or testing (e.g., a realtor needing to test
services in a house for sale, landlord inspection and the like).
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.058 CHARGE FOR MOVING FACILITIES.
   When a consumer requests the Department move any of its facilities for the
benefit of the customer, all the charges for the work shall be assumed by the
customer requesting the move.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.059 WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED; SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   All new customer applications for trash, sewer and water service have the
following security deposit requirements according to town ordinance.
   (A)   Rental deposits. If the utilities are to be kept in the landlord’s
name, the landlord must put up the deposit. If the utilities are to be in the
tenant’s name, the tenant must put up the deposit. A landlord is required to
have a deposit for each active property in his or her name. If the tenant moves
out and leaves a balance being owed, even after the deposit has been applied,
it will follow the same collection policy as all other utility billing, as set
out in §
52.063.
   (B)   Divorce. In case of divorce, the following is required:
      (1)   The party who is awarded the property must bring in the divorce
decree to have the property either placed in their name, or to remove the co-
applicant, whichever the case may be;
      (2)   If the award is to the co-applicant, they must fill out a utility
application and follow the new account procedures. A copy of the divorce decree
is filed with the application;
      (3)   If the award is to the primary applicant, the co-applicant
information is removed from the account. The primary applicant is asked to fill
out another application with all update information; and
      (4)   It is noted on the application it was a transfer due to divorce.
   (C)   Security deposits. Security deposits will be refunded to the customer
by the Utility Billing Office Manager whenever the service is discontinued. Any
amount due, including unpaid services or damaged meters, except by ordinary
wear, will be deducted from the deposit before any refund.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.060 RETURNED CHECKS; SERVICE CHARGE AND COLLECTION.
   Checks and automated payments that are returned by the bank as insufficient
shall be assessed a service charge of $35. This charge is made for all checks/
automated payments that are returned for whatever the reason might be. The
procedure that will be followed is:
   (A)   A notice is created for the customer stating the amount that must be
paid (check amount plus the service charge) in cash, money order or debit/
credit card within 24 hours or the utility meter(s) will be disconnected;
   (B)   If no response is made by the customer within three days, all
utilities will be shut off in the same manner as customary for non-payment of
utility bill and disconnection of account will occur; and
   (C)   Once a customer has three checks returned, for any reason, his or her
account shall be operated on a cash-only or credit/debit card-only basis.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.061 PAYMENT OPTIONS.
   A customer may pay his or her utility bill in the following ways:
   (A)   Payment in person, or place in the outside drop box at City Hall, 211
Cedar Street Wellston, OK, 74881, via:
      (1)   Cash (exact change only) (any overage will be credited to the next
month’s bill);
      (2)   Personal check (unless otherwise noted on the account);
      (3)   Money order/cashier’s check; or
      (4)   Credit or debit card (additional fees apply).
   (B)   Payment by mail to WPWA, P.O Box 353, Wellston, OK, 74881, via:
      (1)   Personal check (unless otherwise noted on the account); or
      (2)   Money order/cashier’s check.
   (C)   Online at www.wellstonok.gov or by phone at 405-365-2476 via credit or
debit card (additional fees apply).
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.062 SHUT-OFF FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   WPWA mails out bills on the first day of the month with the due date
being the fifteenth day of the month, on the sixteenth day of the month, a 10%
late fee is applied to any unpaid balance. After the twentieth day, a $10
penalty will be applied. Bills not paid by the twenty-fifth day of the month
and do not have payment arrangement in place will be shut off for non-payment,
and a $50 service charge applied.
   (B)   Shut-offs due to non-payment are done on the twenty-fifth day of each
month. If the twenty-fifth day falls on Friday, weekend or holiday, shut-offs
are done the next business day.
   (C)   No other contact will be made except the mailing of the regular bill.
Failure of any customer to receive the bill for any utility charges provided
for in this chapter shall not excuse the customer from their obligation to pay
such charges within the time specified in this chapter.
   (D)   If no payment or payment arrangement is made prior to the disconnect
date (twenty-fifth day of the month), utilities will be automatically scheduled
for shut off with a service charge being added to the amount due. Service
cannot be restored until the account is paid in full plus the service charge.
      (1)   Payment arrangements shall be as follows:
         (a)   The customer may request to be placed on a payment contract,
which must be signed in person prior to the twenty-fifth day of the month;
         (b)   One payment contract is allowed per quarter;
         (c)   Failed payment arrangements will be worked with the regular non-
pays. No notice will be given before shut-off;
         (d)   Payment arrangements do not exclude the account from accruing
late charges; and
         (e)   Payment contracts must be approved by the Utility Clerk. All
contracts must have initial payment with the remaining balance broken up over
no more than three months. This will be in addition to the regular bill being
paid in full when it’s due. No additional arrangements until contract is
completed.
      (2)   Shut-off for non-pay procedure timing shall be as follows:
         (a)   Shut-off for non-pay will be made only during regular business
hours;
         (b)   Shut-off for non-pay will be made Monday through Thursday only,
but not on the day before a holiday, or if temperatures forecasted below
freezing overnight; and
         (c)   Allow sufficient time prior to shut-off for non-pay to credit
any payments received prior to the disconnect date. Payments made for reconnect
on twenty-fifth day of the month for services will be restored same day.
Payments made after 3:00 p.m. on twenty-sixth day of the month or beyond will
be turned on next business day, with exception of Friday or a holiday.
      (3)   Hanger notice of shut-off for non-pay shall:
         (a)   Be left at each address where services are shut-off for non-pay;
and
         (b)   The contents shall include:
            1.   Account number and address;
            2.   Notice that service has been shut-off for non-pay; and
            3.   Balance due including all service charges.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 COLLECTION POLICY FOR DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES’ BILLING OFFICE.
   (A)   Meters for disconnected accounts are read on the customer specified
date in order to obtain readings for the final bill. Final account bills are
processed and mailed along with the standard billings for the customers
corresponding cycle. If the final bill is not settled by the due date, late
fees will be assessed. Once a closed account shows up on the aging report as
two months past due, the town reserves the right to send the account to the
town’s collection processor. Customers are responsible for all collection
agency or court fees.
   (B)   This collection policy also applies to any accounts that have been
shut off for non-pay and have not been brought current.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.064 DISPUTE PROCEDURE.
   If a customer comes in with a dispute regarding his or her utility bill, the
following process will be taken:
   (A)   Customer shall notify the WPWA Clerk if there is a problem with his or
her utility bill within ten working days of the due date printed on the
disputed bill;
   (B)   The Clerk will review and research the disputed bill; if a billing
calculation error is found, it will be corrected immediately;
   (C)   If a re-read is necessary, it will be done within 24 hours of the
notice. The meter reader will check the working condition of the meter at the
time of the re-read;
   (D)   If the re-read shows an error was made or the meter was not working
properly, the reading and/or meter will be changed, and the bill will be
adjusted accordingly;
   (E)   If the re-read shows the original reading was correct and the meter
was working properly, no adjustment will be made;
   (F)   The customer may request a company specializing in such testing, check
the meter for accuracy. If testing shows the meter is working accurately, the
customer shall pay the cost of the testing. If the meter is not working
accurately, WPWA will pay the cost of testing;
   (G)   After researching the disputed bill, the Utility Clerk and Town
Administrator shall decide within five working days after receipt of the
complaint and supporting documentation. If the customer is not satisfied with
the decision, a written request may be submitted to have the disputed bill
presented to the WPWA Board of Trustees. Upon receipt of a written request, the
Town Clerk will place the matter on the agenda for the next regular scheduled
WPWA meeting. The written request must be received within ten days of the
initial decision, or the Town Administrator’s decision is final; and
   (H)   Upon review of information provided by the customer and staff, the
WPWA Board will decide regarding the disputed bill. The WPWA Board’s decision
is final.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
WATER POLICIES
§ 52.075 WATER SHORTAGES; RESTRICTIONS; PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE; GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency.
      (1)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due
to inadequate supply, limited treatment, distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the town’s water system.
      (2)   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that
the town’s water system is unable or will within 60 days become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 17-206)
   (B)   Restriction on water use in emergency.
      (1)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the town system. The order
may:
         (a)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week
or according to any orderly and non-discriminatory scheme; and
         (b)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
      (2)   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for 30 days or until such time as the Mayor
shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board, by resolution, approved by a majority
of all its members votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date.
(Prior Code, § 17-207)
   (C)   Proclamation and notice of emergency.
      (1)   The proclamation required by division (B) above shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within 24 hours after the
emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the proclamation in
ten prominent places in the town. The emergency shall be in full force and
effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this section is sufficient
to effect the emergency.
      (2)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability
of water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in division
(C)(1) above is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with
division (C)(1) above within 24 hours of the first notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-208)
   (D)   Grievances with water restrictions. Any person feeling aggrieved by a
proclamation of the Mayor shall have the right to present the matter to the
next regular or special meeting of the town’s Board of Trustees or to any
emergency session called to discuss the water emergency.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or
in part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or safety.
      (2)   The ruling of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all its
members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked
by action of the Board of Trustees, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 17-209)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.076 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   Main water line extensions will be determined by the WPWA. Water main lines
will be installed by the developer or property owners and must be installed per
DEQ requirements and any applicable permit fees. After inspection for proper
installation, WPWA accepts ownership and maintenance. WPWA will not accept
lines outside WPWA limits, but may sell the water at a meter located within
WPWA limits. Any exceptions will require Administration and/or Board approval.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.077 WATER METER TAPS.
   A developer, contractor or property owner will provide information as to
grade and location of water meter tile before WPWA will make a tap. If the
developer or contractor gives the wrong elevation of final grade information,
they will be charged at town’s cost for raising or lowering the meter can.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.078 WATER LINE EXTENSION CHARGE.
   When Department funds are used to extend water lines (mains), a connect
charge will be assessed for each connection to that specific section of line.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.079 WPWA LINE EXTENSION EXEMPTION POLICY.
   All line extension exemptions shall be required to have WPWA Board approval
and all applicable DEQ permits and fees. When permit is approved by DEQ and all
easements needed are in place, customer may install said line extension per DEQ
and WPWA specifications and regulations. All labor, materials and other
appurtenances required to install the line extension shall be at the customer’s
expense. After the line is installed and inspected by the WPWA, tested and
required sufficiency certifications filed, then the WPWA will accept ownership
and responsibility for operation and maintenance of said line extension. At
that time, customer taps may be installed per WPWA meter tap policies. All fees
shall be paid prior to installation of meters.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.080 WATER LEAK POLICY.
   A customer experiencing a water leak may be granted an adjustment on his or
her water charge, provided:
   (A)   If a rental property, and a leak is known to be at that location, the
WPWA will not allow another tenant to set up service until the landlord
presents proof of repairs; and
   (B)   The customer requests an adjustment. The water charge adjustment is to
be made based on those amounts of water in the billing period more than normal
average water consumption over a one- month period, the highest bill. The water
adjustment will be the average of the last three months’ water charges prior to
the leak. A water adjustment can only be given once per 12-month period.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.081 WATER METER INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Customers shall pay tap fees and deposits as per town resolution. If
not paid by the arranged installation date, the meter will not be set. All fees
must be paid prior to the installation.
   (B)   Customers shall arrange for his or her contractor to contact the
utility personnel at 405-356-2476 to schedule a date for new service to be
installed.
   (C)   There is a minimum of ten days’ notice required for new service
installs. Every effort will be made to do the installation within these ten
days. However, occasionally emergency situations arise which would make this
impossible.
   (D)   Customers receiving new service after July 1, 2022, are required to
install a shut-off valve in his or her service line, after the meter and
outside the meter can. This will allow the customer to turn on and off his or
her water, without having to use the meter yoke valve.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.082 BULK WATER.
   If a consumer is requesting bulk water, he or she will need to come to the
Town Hall during business hours to set up an account and pay an annual deposit
of $75 that will include the first 1,000 gallons. Afterwards, it shall $20 per
every 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
    (A)   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or
permits others under his or her supervision, custody or control to violate any
term of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty. Any violation of the
provisions of the Mayor’s proclamation or action of the Board shall be
punishable by a fine provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-210)
   (B)   As per §
52.035, tampering with a meter shall result in a $250 tamper fee, which shall
be applied to each meter per incident. Further violation of meter tampering
will result in permanent removal of meter and disconnection of account.
   (C)   As per §§
52.056 and
52.062, for delinquent payments, a charge of 10% shall be added to monthly
statements to reflect the amount due after the due date, and an additional $10
penalty after the twentieth day of the month. Service shall be disconnected
after the twenty-fifth day of the month and a $50 reconnect fee will be
charged.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Conformance to rules, regulations
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Persons to comply with rules, regulations
   
53.04   Charge to be made for permit
   
53.05   Compliance with ordinances, laws
   
53.06   Sewer service charge levied
   
53.07   Procedures; required connection to sewer
Wastewater Policies
   
53.20   Sewer charge adjustments; leaks
   
53.21   Sanitary sewer tap guidelines
   
53.22   Sewer main extension policy
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions pertaining to meters, regulations and payments, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 CONFORMANCE TO RULES, REGULATIONS.
   All connections to the sewers of the town shall conform to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-301)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY SEWAGE or SEWAGE. The liquid waste which may or may not contain
solids, originating in the sanitary conveniences for personnel of a dwelling,
business building, factory or institution.
   SANITARY SEWER or SEWER. All sanitary sewer trunk lines, main lines, submain
lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants and all sewer lines connected
to the town’s sewer lines or treatment plants whether owned by the town or not.
   USER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM. The person, firm or corporation having a contract
for waste water service at a particular location, if the location has a
sanitary sewer connection with the town’s system, or in case there is no water
contract on file then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with
water bills for the location, or which pays the same, or in case a private
water supply is used, then the proprietor of the location having the sewer
connection.
(Prior Code, § 17-302)
§ 53.03 PERSONS TO COMPLY WITH RULES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection on
any public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer, without complying with the rules and regulations
herein set out.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall connect more than one building to
a single lateral leading to the public sewer system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 CHARGE TO BE MADE FOR PERMIT.
   A charge prescribed by §
53.03 of this chapter for each connection made on the sanitary sewer system of
the town regardless of whether the connection is made on what has heretofore
been designated as a public sewer or a private sewer, is hereby levied for the
right of the person, firm or corporation to make the connection to the sanitary
sewer system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-304)
§ 53.05 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES, LAWS.
   Any person who connects to the sewers of the town in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the town or of the laws of the state will be
denied further sewer service until such ordinances and laws are complied with.
It shall be the duty of the town to disconnect any sewers which have not been
connected in compliance with the ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 17-305)
§ 53.06 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE LEVIED.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sanitary
sewerage system of the town and for other purposes, there is hereby fixed and
established charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be levied
against each respective user thereof with the town in such amounts and
according to such classifications of users as the Board of Trustees by
resolution or motion may determine. A copy of the current charges in effect
shall be kept on file in the Town Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-306)
§ 53.07 PROCEDURES; REQUIRED CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a sanitary sewer line of the town, is hereby
required to install suitable toilet and sewage disposal facilities directly
with the public sanitary sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 30 days after official notice to do so.
   (B)   During the construction of any sewer line by the town, the property
abutting such line may be connected with the line at no cost to the owner of
the property. After the completion of the construction of the sanitary sewer
line by the town, a charge will be made for each connection.
   (C)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer line becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall
be made to the public sanitary sewer system in compliance with this section,
and any septic tank, cesspool and any similar private sewage disposal facility
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into the public sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   When sanitary sewer facilities become available, the failure to
connect any dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial building with
such facilities within 30 days shall result in the disconnection of any such
building from the town’s water lines by the town and the owner of any such
building shall become subject to a fine of the same amount per month as such
building would be charged if it were connected to the sewer system. The fine
shall continue each month until such connection is made. A charge shall be made
for reconnection of water service to any such building.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer line of
appurtenance thereof and before commencement of the construction of any
dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial building shall obtain a
written permit signed by the town. The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the town and the connection shall be inspected by a
person designated by the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
any building with the public sanitary sewer system shall be borne by the owner.
The owner of any such building shall indemnify the town for any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or connection
of such building with the public sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 17-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
WASTEWATER POLICIES
§ 53.20 SEWER CHARGE ADJUSTMENTS; LEAKS.
   (A)   Sewer charge adjustments may be made for leaks for going into the
sanitary sewer. A customer experiencing a water leak may be granted an
adjustment on his or her sewer charge provided:
      (1)   Customer requests an adjustment; and
      (2)   The water, because of the leak, did not enter the sanitary sewer
system.
   (B)   The sewer charge adjustment is to be made based on those amounts of
water in the billing period more than normal average water consumption over a
one-month period, the highest bill. The sewer adjustment will be the average of
the last three months’ sewer charges prior to the leak. A sewer adjustment can
only be given once per 12-month period.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 53.21 SANITARY SEWER TAP GUIDELINES.
   (A)   No unmetered water or any surface drainage will be allowed to enter
the sanitary sewer system. The approval of an application and the issuance of a
permit does not legalize nor authorize any work which is not in compliance with
this code of ordinances or WPWA sanitary regulations.
   (B)   The sewer tap must be made by the town, the WPWA or a licensed plumber
and inspected by WPWA.
   (C)   Whoever does the sewer tap, the WPWA or the licensed plumber is
responsible for digging and uncovering the main line and covering up;
   (D)   The tap shall be no closer than three feet from a manhole.
   (E)   The tap must be at a 45-degree angle on the main.
   (F)   If the tap is made over the weekend, the ditch will be left open or
will be dug up at the expense of the homeowner to be inspected.
   (G)   Trench excavation must meet federal safety requirements.
   (H)   Authority collection system made outside WPWA limits shall require the
approval of the WPWA Director or Town Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
§ 53.22 SEWER MAIN EXTENSION POLICY.
   Sanitary sewer connections inside town limits shall adhere to the following
provisions:
   (A)   Main sewer extensions will require a minimum of eight-inch diameter
pipe;
   (B)   Sewer main lines will be installed by the developer or property owners
per DEQ requirements and any applicable permit fees; and
   (C)   After inspection for proper installation, the town accepts ownership
and maintenance.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2022)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
      
73.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
74.   PARKING RULES
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application of regulations
   
70.03   Vehicle equipment generally
   
70.04   Size and weight of vehicles
   
70.05   Securing loads
   
70.06   Vehicle inspection
   
70.07   Opening, closing vehicle doors
   
70.08   Boarding, alighting from vehicles
   
70.09   Unlawful riding
   
70.10   Authorizing, permitting violations prohibited
   
70.11   Animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.12   Working on streets; exceptions
   
70.13   Authorized emergency vehicles; approach
   
70.14   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
70.15   Crossing fire hose
   
70.16   Seat belts
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.30   Duty of police
   
70.31   Accidents; duty to stop; leaving scene of accident
   
70.32   Citation tags; failure to obey; illegal cancellation; disposition;
records
   
70.33   Court records, abstract sent to state’s Department of Public Safety
   
70.34   Eluding police officer prohibited
   
70.35   Adoption of state’s Traffic Code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning. However,
for any words and phrases used in this part which are not defined in this
section, but are defined in the laws of the state regulating traffic, the
definition in the laws of the state shall be deemed to apply to the words and
phrases used in this part.
   ALLEY. A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or three tandem wheels any of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of fire departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the town’s Police Department or any other
officer authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two or more separate roadways the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, stop
or stopping means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET. Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 15-101)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, state traffic laws, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
   (D)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-102)
§ 70.03 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped
as required by law;
      (2)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      (3)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Equipment of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§ 70.04 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state
law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the
town.
   (B)   (1)   No vehicle weighing more than 10,000 pounds shall be operated
upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, unless the
vehicle has a special permit, as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Upon proper application to the town, the town may issue a special
permit to allow the operation of a motor vehicle weighing more than 10,000
pounds upon prohibited streets, alleys and other public ways where it is made
to appear to the town that:
         (a)   The vehicle is to be used to perform work within the area of the
public way and that no other reasonable access exists; or
         (b)   The vehicle is to be used to deliver goods or merchandise to
some area served by the public way.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight, load of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 70.05 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except that, sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products, except baled agricultural products, but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 VEHICLE INSPECTION.
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 15-106)
§ 70.07 OPENING, CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 15-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§ 70.08 BOARDING, ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZING, PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him or her,
registered in his or her name or under his or her control to be driven, parked
or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code. No parent of any
child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such
child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-111)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-104
§ 70.12 WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction.
      (2)   In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions
of division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been
erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under,
over or around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter
the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flaggers or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 15-112)
§ 70.13 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; APPROACH.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to a driver
of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or
when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when
responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm.
      (2)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle; except that, an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (3)   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-113)
   (B)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 15-114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-106, 11-405
§ 70.14 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 15-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)
§ 70.15 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 15-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1109
§ 70.16 SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   Every driver, when transporting a child under four years of age
weighing 60 pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets
or highways of the state, shall provide for the protection of said child by
properly using a child passenger restraint system. For purposes of this
section, CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger
restraint system that meets the federal standards for crash-tested restraint
systems as set by the United States Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Children four or five years of age shall be protected by use of a
child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A non-resident driver transporting a child in the state;
      (2)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (3)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (4)   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use; and
      (5)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it
appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor
vehicle.
   (E)   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be admissible
as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (F)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 2-4-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.30 DUTY OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 15-117)
§ 70.31 ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP; LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he
or she has given his or her name, address and the registration of his or her
vehicle and shall upon request exhibit his or her driver’s license to the
person injured or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or making arrangement for the
carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and
surgical treatment if it is apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if
such is requested by the injured person. Each such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300 shall, as
soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to the Police
Department, if a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the state’s Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-118)
Statutory reference:
   Accident reports, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 70.32 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO OBEY; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION; DISPOSITION;
RECORDS.
   (A)   Issuance.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code.
      (2)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      (3)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to
present such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified
thereon. Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of
a police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
      (5)   The town’s Board of Trustees may require that the police officers
use citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 15-119)
   (B)   Failure to obey citation. It is unlawful and an offense for any person
to violate his or her written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the
issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which citation was originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 15-120)
   (C)   Failure to comply with traffic citations attached to parked vehicle.
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle by the court date, a warrant of arrest may be
issued. On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-121)
   (D)   Illegal cancellation of traffic citations. It is unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner other than is provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-122)
   (E)   Disposition and records of traffic citations, warrants and complaints.
      (1)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or any traffic
law of the town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the citation
with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to be
delivered to the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court,
the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      (4)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-123)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 COURT RECORDS, ABSTRACT SENT TO STATE’S DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a person
upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state’s Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the Court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state’s
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 15-124)
§ 70.34 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop shall
willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights or in any
other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A
VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL, for the purpose of this section, means a red light
and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with
insignia showing the same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol
car.
(Prior Code, § 15-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 ADOPTION OF STATE’S TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-126)
Statutory reference:
   State motor vehicle code, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   State rule of the road, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this traffic code shall be
punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
   (B)   (1)   It is a violation within the town to drive and not wear a seat
belt or use child passenger restraints.
      (2)   The Department of Public Safety shall not record or assess points
for violations of the seat belt law.
      (3)   Violations of the seat belt law shall be punishable by fines and
costs not to exceed $20.
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of §
70.31 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15-118)
(Ord. 99-2, passed 2-4-1999; Ord. passed 9-2-1999)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to devices
   
71.02   Necessity of signs
   
71.03   Interference with devices, signs or signals
   
71.04   Presumption of legality
   
71.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
71.06   Signal legend
   
71.07   Flashing signals
   
71.08   Driving within traffic lanes
   
71.09   One-way streets, alleys
   
71.10   Through streets
   
71.11   Stop signs; procedures
   
71.12   Yield signs; procedures
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(a)
§ 71.02 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of the part for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 15-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(b)
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-207
§ 71.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence. Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 15-304)
§ 71.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this traffic code and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and
declared to be official traffic-control devices; provided, such traffic-control
devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-305)
§ 71.06 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall
indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-306)
§ 71.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at on intersection, or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 15-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§ 71.08 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
§ 71.09 ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this town designates any one-
way street or alley the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 15-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-308, 15-102(a)
§ 71.10 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any
street or part of a street a through street.
(Prior Code, § 15-310)
   (B)   Whenever a through street is designated by the board of trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control
signals.
(Prior Code, § 15-311)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets, see 47 O.S. § 15-108
§ 71.11 STOP SIGNS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 15-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(b), 11-703(d)
§ 71.12 YIELD SIGNS; PROCEDURES.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line or, if no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she
is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so
yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that,
if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or
vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to
yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 15-313)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(c), 11-703(c)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
72.01   Purpose and effect
   
72.02   Place of impoundment
   
72.03   Police authority
   
72.04   Disabled vehicles
   
72.05   Vehicles on bridge
   
72.06   Arrest and detention of driver
   
72.07   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
72.08   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
72.09   Vehicles parked in prohibited zone overtime
   
72.10   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
72.11   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
72.12   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
72.13   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, wrecked vehicles, see §§
91.20 through 91.30
§ 72.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights and for safeguarding
and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for removal of vehicles on highway by state, see 47 O.S. § 955
   Removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, see 47 O.S. § 954A
§ 72.02 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the storage yard of the impounding company.
(Prior Code, § 15-502)
§ 72.03 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-504)
§ 72.04 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 72.05 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
§ 72.06 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-507)
§ 72.07 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-508)
§ 72.08 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of Section 15-718 of
this code may be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made
and filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a violation of the provisions of Section 15-718 of this code
occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint
against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s
property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then
the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The
complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the
owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or
standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of Section
15-718 of this code have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the
vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-509) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 VEHICLES PARKED IN PROHIBITED ZONE OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of Section 15-704, regarding more than 24 hours,
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-510)
§ 72.10 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant may be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-511)
§ 72.11 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 15-512)
§ 72.12 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time or cannot be determined from the
registration papers or other identifying media in the vehicle or from records
or information available from reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be
removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment and the registered owner
of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the place of impoundment as
soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified
the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-513)
§ 72.13 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-514)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Speed regulations; limits
   
73.02   Turning movements and signals
   
73.03   Operation of vehicles generally
   
73.04   Driver’s license required
   
73.05   Vehicle license required
   
73.06   Unlicensed vehicles
   
73.07   Inspection sticker; display
   
73.08   Starting a parked vehicle
   
73.09   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
73.10   Right-of-way generally
   
73.11   Vehicle turning left
   
73.12   Reckless driving
   
73.13   Driving under influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics
   
73.14   Driving on sidewalk
   
73.15   Limitation on backing
   
73.16   Corner cutting
   
73.17   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
§ 73.01 SPEED REGULATIONS; LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at
a careful and prudent speed not greater than, nor less than, is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when driving upon any
narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions,
(Prior Code, § 15-220)
   (B)   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter,
shall be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street within this
town. The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed regulations
shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of
any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-221)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Required position, method of turning at intersections. The driver of a
vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 15-250)
   (B)   Turns and u-turns.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or u-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or u-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-251)
   (C)   Turning, stopping signals required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon
giving a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any
other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to
give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 15-252)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit turning at intersections, see 47 O.S. § 15-102(a)
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-601, 11-604
§ 73.03 OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians and
property of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   State Rules of the Road, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq.
§ 73.04 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license as
required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to
operate a motor vehicle within the town, or to operate a motor vehicle within
the town in violation of any restriction applied to the driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 15-202) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Drivers’ licenses, see 47 O.S. §§ 6-101 et seq.
§ 73.05 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive, propel, move or park on the streets of this town any
motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 INSPECTION STICKER; DISPLAY.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on the streets of the town which does not
have displayed thereon an official inspection sticker.
(Prior Code, § 15-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-207) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-301
§ 73.10 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right-
of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street;
provided that, the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 15-208) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 15-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-402
§ 73.12 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. Reckless
driving shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous
rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 15-210) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 73.13 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, NARCOTICS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him or her
incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within the
town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this division (B) is
or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate,
amphetamine, marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 15-211) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-902
§ 73.14 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-212) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.15 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-213) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16 CORNER CUTTING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility, except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility. No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 15-214) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.17 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 15-215) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-704
CHAPTER 74: PARKING RULES
Section
   
74.01   Obstructing traffic or driveway
   
74.02   Park within indicated space
   
74.03   Proximity to curb, parallel parking
   
74.04   Angle parking; designation; obedience
   
74.05   Parking prohibitions
   
74.06   Loading zones
   
74.07   Selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
74.08   Illegal parking presumption
   
74.09   Reserved areas for disabled persons
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15-230) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code, § 15-231) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code, § 15-232) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 ANGLE PARKING; DESIGNATION; OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets angle
parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets.
      (2)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place
where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the
left side of the street.
      (3)   Angle parking, for the purpose of this traffic code, shall mean
parking at the curb at approximately a 45-degree angle between the right side
of the vehicle and the curb.
(Prior Code, § 15-233)
   (B)   (1)   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front
of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 15-234)
Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004(c)
§ 74.05 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
         (a)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
            1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street, except as authorized otherwise in this section;
            2.   On a sidewalk;
            3.   Within an intersection;
            4.   On a crosswalk;
            5.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
            6.   On any railroad tracks; or
            7.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or
parking.
         (b)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
            1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
            2.   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
            3.   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
            4.   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
            5.   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
or
            6.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (2)   Any business, garage or filling station duly licensed by the state
and/or town may reserve such portions along the curb in front of their
establishments as is necessary to be used by them or their customers in the
conduct of their business. Those desiring to avail themselves of the benefits
of this division (A)(2) shall provide markers on the curb designating the space
so reserved at their own expense.
(Prior Code, § 15-235)
      (3)   It is unlawful for any truck or bus to be parked or stored on
public or private property within an area zoned for residential use or in other
zoning districts within 300 feet of residential subdivisions, except for the
purposes of loading and unloading.
      (4)   (a)   The following trucks or buses are exempt from the 300-foot
restriction in division (A)(3) above:
            1.   Those used in businesses lawfully established within
commercial or industrial zoning districts;
            2.   Those used for farming by the owner or occupant in
agricultural zoning districts; or
            3.   Buses operated by schools and churches within residential
zones.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(4), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
            BUS. Any vehicle designed to carry more than 18 passengers and used
for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation
excluding school buses owned and operated by public or private schools or
school districts and church buses from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
            TRUCK. Any truck above one ton capacity or truck-trailer with or
without semi-trailer or pole-trailer attached or any other combination of
vehicles.
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle at any time upon any of the designated streets, except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device. No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood or otherwise left on any
street in the town for a period of time longer than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-236)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle or
allow a motor vehicle to remain parked in any parking space designated by signs
or other markings as two-hour parking contrary to the provisions of this
division (C). The areas within the town located within the 300 block on Second
Street will be marked with two-hour parking signs.
      (2)   (a)   The merchants within the above area will be responsible for
monitoring the parking.
         (b)   If any vehicle remains parked in any such parking space beyond a
two-hour period, such vehicle shall be considered as parked overtime.
         (c)   The merchant will come to the Town Hall and sign a complaint.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 10-3-1989; Ord. 99-601, passed 6-3-1999) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 74.06 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may determine the location of passenger and
freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs
indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 15-237)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
      (3)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 15-238)
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this traffic code, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets
in the town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons
congregating around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-239) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 ILLEGAL PARKING PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shah constitute
in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle
was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the
time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 15-240) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 RESERVED AREAS FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted at a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person under the
provisions of §
70.12 of this code of ordinances or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 87-5, passed 10-6-1987) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
74.09 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, such person
shall be fined not more than $50 and, in addition thereto, such person shall
pay any and all reasonable and necessary charges incurred by the landowner or
other person in having any motor vehicle removed from the property and stored.
(Ord. 87-5, passed 10-6-1987)
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
75.01   Regulations applicable generally
   
75.02   Traffic laws and regulations apply
   
75.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
75.04   Riding on bicycles
   
75.05   Using right side of roadway
   
75.06   Riding abreast
   
75.07   Speed
   
75.08   Riding on sidewalks
   
75.09   Lights and reflectors
Golf Carts, ATVs and UTVs
   
75.20   Definitions
   
75.21   Policy statement
   
75.22   Rules and regulations
   
75.23   Required equipment
   
75.24   Permits
   
75.25   License suspension, revocation
 
   
75.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 75.01 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this subchapter. The parent of any child or the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter. The provisions of
this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway
or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-401) Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201
§ 75.02 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 75.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or u-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 15-403) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 15-404) Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1203
§ 75.05 USING RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 15-405) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast,
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-406) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 15-407) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-408)
§ 75.09 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state’s Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all
distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 15-409) Penalty, see §
75.99
GOLF CARTS, ATVS AND UTVS
§ 75.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ATV. All-terrain vehicle is a vehicle manufactured and used exclusively for
off-highway use, traveling on three or more non-highway tires, having a seat
designed to be straddled by the operator and which is steered by the use of
handlebars.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   UTV. Any recreational motor vehicle other than an ATV, motorcycle or
snowmobile, designed for and capable of travel over designated unpaved roads,
traveling on four or more low pressure tires of 20 psi or less, maximum width
less than 74 inches, maximum weight less than 2,000 pounds, or having a wheel
base of 94 inches or less. UTV does not include golf carts, vehicles
specifically designed to carry a disabled person or implements of husbandry.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019)
§ 75.21 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts,
ATVs and UTVs are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and
roads, and the town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on streets
or roadways. The town, by regulating such operation, is merely addressing
safety issues. This section is not to be relied upon as a determination that
operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in accordance with this
subchapter. All persons operating golf carts, ATVs and UTVs must be observant
of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and other pedestrians. All persons who
operate or ride golf carts, ATVs and UTVs on streets inside the corporate town
limits do so at their own risk and peril. The town has no liability under any
theory of liable, for permitting golf carts, ATVs and UTVs to be operated on
the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019)
§ 75.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts, ATVs and UTVs may only be operated on streets within the town in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any person who operates a golf cart, ATV or UTV in the town takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with operating a golf cart, ATV or
UTV.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart, ATV or UTV must be at least 16
years of age and possess a valid driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
issued by Oklahoma or any other state.
   (C)   No person shall operate, and no owner shall permit another person to
operate, a golf cart, ATV or UTV on a town street unless:
      (1)   The golf cart, ATV or UTV is covered by a liability insurance
policy; and
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart, ATV or UTV carries with him or her
proof of liability insurance as required.
   (D)   No person shall operate a golf cart, ATV or UTV on a street in excess
of the posted speed limits.
   (E)   Golf carts, ATV or UTVs may not be operated on State Highway 66 or
66B, except to cross said highway at intersections, in a path 90 degrees or as
direct as possible across said highway, to the nearest intersecting street.
   (F)   Golf carts, ATV and UTVs shall have operable headlights and taillights
lighted when operating on streets.
   (G)   Golf carts, ATV and UTVs may not be operated when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
   (H)   Golf carts, ATV and UTVs may not be operated on the sidewalk.
   (I)   Golf cart, ATV and UTV drivers must yield the right-of-way to
overtaking vehicles at all times.
   (J)   Any person who operates a golf cart, ATV or UTV on the streets of the
town must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use
of alcoholic beverages and all illegal drugs, as well as all other state
traffic laws.
   (K)   The maximum occupancy of golf carts, ATV and UTVs traveling on town
streets shall be equal to the amount of safety belts or passenger restraints,
if so equipped in the golf cart, ATV or UTV.
   (L)   Golf carts, ATV and UTVs are only allowed to park in handicapped
parking spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped
parking sticker.
   (M)   The operator of a golf cart, ATV or UTV shall obey all ordinances of
the town and all provisions of the state’s Vehicle Code, as amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.23 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart, ATV or UTV operated on a town street shall have the following
equipment in good working condition at all times:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   Rearview mirror;
   (E)   Headlights that emit white light visible from at least 500 feet to the
front;
   (F)   Taillights that emit red light visible from at least 100 feet from the
rear; and
   (G)   Brake lights on the rear.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.24 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV without
obtaining a permit from the town, as provided in this section.
   (B)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be renewed
annually on January 1 of each year.
   (C)   The annual cost of a permit is $25 per golf cart, ATV or UTV to cover
the costs of implementing and maintaining this chapter and shall be paid to the
town by the applicant. Insurance coverage shall be verified as in effect when
issuing or renewing a permit.
   (D)   After completion of the application and payment of the requisite fee,
the applicant shall present the golf cart, ATV or UTV to the Chief of Police,
or his or her designee, for an inspection to determine whether the golf cart,
ATV or UTV may be operated on a city street. If the applicant and golf cart,
ATV or UTV are qualified under the terms and conditions of this section, a
license shall be issued to the applicant which must be kept on the vehicle at
all times. The Police Department shall issue a sticker as visible proof of
compliance, which shall be valid for a period of one year from January 1 to
December 31, and which must be displayed on the left rear of the golf cart, ATV
or UTV at all times.
   (E)   Golf cart, ATV or UTV owners must complete a permit application form
and file in the office of the Town Clerk. The completed form will be maintained
by the town’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.25 LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   (A)   The license of an operator of a golf cart, ATV or UTV issued pursuant
to this chapter may be suspended by the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, if:
      (1)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
      (2)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
      (3)   There is evidence that the license holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart, ATV or UTV; or
      (4)   For any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to ensure the
safety and well-being of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall issue a
notice of suspension of a license in writing and either hand deliver the notice
to the license holder or send the notice by certified mail to the license
holder at the address on the application.
      (2)   The suspension of a license shall be effective immediately after
personal service, or on the third day after the post mark of the certified mail
receipt.
   (C)   Upon investigation by and the recommendation of the town’s Police
Department, the Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that there is evidence that the permittee cannot
safely operate the golf cart, ATV or UTV on town streets.
   (D)   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by this subchapter
revoked by the town upon recommendation by the town’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The town may prosecute violators for any act constituting a violation
of §§
75.20 through
75.25 of this chapter. Any person who violates any provisions of §§
75.20 through
75.25 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $200, unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this
code of ordinances, plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 12-14-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping in annoying manner
   
90.03   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
90.04   Livestock; running at large; impoundment and sale
   
90.05   Running at large; exceptions
   
90.06   Impoundment and disposition
   
90.07   Animal care
   
90.08   Wild animals
   
90.09   Animal waste
   
90.10   Vicious dogs; killing
   
90.11   Enforcement
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation keeping or harboring one or
more animals. An animal shall be deemed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for
ten consecutive days or more.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise, except for a
licensed kennel, that buys, sells or boards any species of animals.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; or
      (6)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person’s commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal or animals that constitute a physical threat to
human beings or other animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey (non-human primate), raccoon, skunk, fox,
poisonous snake, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm-blooded
animal which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Animals, town power to regulate, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 90.02 KEEPING IN ANNOYING MANNER.
   The keeping of, or permitting the keeping of, any livestock, animals or fowl
within the corporate limits of the town in such a manner that it annoys or
bothers the residents thereabouts, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   The keeping or permitting the keeping of any pigs or hogs within the
residential or commercial corporate limits of the town is hereby declared a
nuisance and may be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 LIVESTOCK; RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE.
   (A)   Running at large of fowl and rabbits prohibited. Any person who shall
be the owner or keeper of any chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other domestic
fowl or rabbits, and shall permit the same to run at large in the town or
trespass upon the premises of another.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
   (B)   Running at large of livestock prohibited. It is unlawful for the owner
or keeper of any horse, cow, mule, hog, sheep, goat or other animal of similar
kind to permit the same to run at large within the town or to trespass upon the
lands of another.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning, harboring or exercising control
over an animal to permit such animal to run at large in the town. It is the
duty of all persons owning, harboring or exercising control over any animal to
keep them restrained in an enclosure or on a leash.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the animal when such
animal remains near its owner or keeper or its vehicle or effects.
(Prior Code, § 4-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals, including cats, shall be taken
by humane officers, and impounded by a veterinarian and there confined in a
humane manner.
   (B)   Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not less than three days.
   (C)   If by license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal can
be identified, the humane officer shall upon impoundment notify the owner by
telephone or mail,
   (D)   An owner reclaiming an impounded cat or dog shall pay an impound fee,
plus a daily fee for each day the animal has been impounded.
   (E)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within three days shall be
humanely euthanized.
   (F)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the humane officer or police officer may issue to the known owner of such
animal a notice of ordinance violation.
   (G)   The owner of an impounded animal may also be proceeded against for
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-109)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with sufficient food
and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, overload, overwork or
otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (D)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner. In the
event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall, at
once, report the accident in the appropriate law enforcement agency.
   (E)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal;
provided that, it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his or her
own property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances.
(Prior Code, § 4-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any
wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply to
zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet.
   (C)   The town shall have the power to release or order the release of any
infant wild animal kept under temporary permit which is deemed capable of
survival.
(Prior Code, § 4-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal on public walks, recreation areas or
private property.
(Prior Code, § 4-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 VICIOUS DOGS; KILLING.
   The police or humane officer may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of
another when the dog, without undue provocation, bites him, her or the other,
or attacks, or attempts to bite or attack, him, her or the other in such manner
that an ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person
toward whom the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or
otherwise physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 4-114)
§ 90.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those
persons or agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be a violation
of tins chapter to interfere with a humane officer in the performance of his or
her duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-120)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
91.01   Nuisance generally
   
91.02   Abatement by town; authorization
   
91.03   Council resolution necessary; service of resolution
   
91.04   Abatement at owner’s expense
   
91.05   Jurisdiction
Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Prohibited; nuisance declared
   
91.22   Notice to remove
   
91.23   Responsibility for removal
   
91.24   Notice; duplicate copies; failure to comply
   
91.25   Removal of motor vehicles from property
   
91.26   Notice of removal
   
91.27   Appraisal
   
91.28   Redemption of impounded vehicles
   
91.29   Collection of town’s costs of removal
Weeds and Noxious Plants
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Nuisance declared
   
91.47   Removal required
   
91.48   Notice and order to cut, remove or destroy
   
91.49   Consent or hearing
   
91.50   Abatement by town; collection costs
Food Regulations
   
91.65   U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance adopted
   
91.66   Milk Ordinance adopted
   
91.67   Grade requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 91.01 NUISANCE GENERALLY.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground shall allow or
permit any refuse matter, animal or vegetable, or water or any putrid or
unwholesome substance to accumulate thereon, causing an offensive odor, or
suffer or permit any cellar, stable, henhouse, dog kennel or any place where
any animals are kept, or any toilet or privy vault, to become in such a
condition as to emit offensive odors or be injurious or dangerous to the health
of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Any condition described in division (A) above is declared to be a
nuisance and may be abated.
(Prior Code, § 8-101) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; AUTHORIZATION.
   The Council shall have power to abate any nuisance described in the
provisions of this chapter by causing any lot or piece of ground to be filled
up or drained, and any animal or vegetable refuse matter or any putrid of
unwholesome substances to be removed and any cellar, stable, henhouse, dog
kennel, or any place where animals are kept or any toilet or privy vault to be
thoroughly cleaned and put in good sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.03 COUNCIL RESOLUTION NECESSARY; SERVICE OF RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Council resolution necessary. Before proceeding to abate any nuisance
described in this chapter, the Board shall first pass a resolution declaring
the abatement necessary, describing the property upon which the nuisance is
located, and the character of the nuisance and giving the name of the occupant
or owner or agent, if known, and fix a reasonable time of not less than five
days, unless there is an immediate danger to the public, for the abatement of
the nuisance by the occupant or owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
   (B)   Service of resolution. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon
the owner of any piece of ground declared to be a nuisance, his or her agent or
attorney, by some duly authorized officer or employee of the town. In case
personal service cannot be made upon the owner, his or her agent or attorney,
for any reason, then service shall be by publication of the resolution in the
official town paper, shall be at least five days prior to the day affixed for
the owner to comply with the resolution. This publication shall be sufficient
notice to the owner unless there is an immediate danger to the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
(Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   If the owner, occupant or person in control of any lot or piece of
ground shall fail, refuse or neglect, after the service of notice as provided
in §
91.04(B) of this chapter, to comply with the resolution within the time
specified, the town shall then proceed at once to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   An accurate account of the cost or proportionate cost of the abatement
shall be kept with reference to each lot or piece of land, and certified to the
Town Board, and the Town Board shall, by ordinance, levy and assess the cost or
proportionate cost, including the cost of publication and other fees and cost
necessarily incident thereto, against each lot or piece of ground chargeable
therewith, as a special assessment, and the Town Clerk shall certify the
assessment to the County Clerk for collection as other special taxes are
collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-106) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.05 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the Health Department is extended so that the provisions
of this chapter shall be effective outside of and within one-half mile of the
town’s limits, in all matters affecting the health of the inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 8-107) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, as defined herein, which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and the term shall include, but not be limited to,
automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors,
go-carts and golf carts.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property which is not public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. The property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any political subdivision
thereof exercises control and dominion.
(Prior Code, § 8-301) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.21 PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to park,
store, leave or permit the parking, storing, leaving of any vehicle of any kind
which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or
partially dismantled condition whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the town for a period of time in excess of 72 hours.
      (2)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to any vehicle
enclosed within a building on private property or to any vehicle held in
connection with a lawful business enterprise and property operated in the
appropriate zone, pursuant to the zoning ordinance or to any motor vehicle in
operable condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag
strips or raceways or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique collection
purposes in a storage place maintained in a lawful place and manner.
(Prior Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the town, that any nuisance, as
defined by this subchapter, exists in the town, a notice in writing shall be
served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists or, in case
there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his or her
agent, notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its
removal in the time specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.23 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
town or its designee, the owner or occupant of the private property where same
is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.24 NOTICE; DUPLICATE COPIES; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The town shall give notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the
private property where a nuisance, as defined by the subchapter, is located, at
least ten days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient
notice, when a copy of same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the property
upon which the vehicle is located and duplicate copies are sent by certified
mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or her last known
address.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time
specified in this subchapter, and the notice shall advise that, upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the town shall prosecute a complaint for
failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall undertake such removal with the cost
to be levied against the owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.25 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES FROM PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the violation described in the notice served pursuant to this
subchapter has not been remedied within the ten-day period of compliance the
Chief of Police or his or her designee shall continue to prosecute charges on a
daily basis for failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall have the right to
take possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove it from the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder or to refuse
to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for the purpose
of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Within 48 hours of the removal of a vehicle pursuant to this
subchapter, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall give notice to
the registered owner of the vehicle, if known, and also to the owner or
occupant of the private property from which the vehicle was removed, that said
vehicle has been impounded and stored for violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The notice shall give the location where the vehicle is stored and the
proper procedure for redeeming said vehicle, including cost of redemption.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.27 APPRAISAL.
   Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter, the town
shall, after ten days, cause it to be appraised. The Chief of Police, or his or
her designee, shall execute an affidavit so attesting and describing the
vehicle, including the license plates, if any, and stating the location and
appraised value of the vehicle. After complying with the above, the town may
summarily disuse of the vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. Notice of
public shall be given not less than ten days before the date of proposed sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.28 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this subchapter may
redeem such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the town, of such
sum as may be determined and fixed as the actual and reasonable expense of
removal, plus storage.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.29 COLLECTION OF TOWN’S COSTS OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the town to pay the unrecovered expense
incurred by the town in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be
added to the municipal utility bills of the private property from which removed
and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
   (B)   If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if
collection efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the town to
the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located who shall
add the same to the ad valorem taxes against the property, until paid, and such
costs shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes assessed
against the property, and when collected shall be paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS PLANTS. Poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac, at any height or
stage of maturity.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office.
   RANK WEEDS.
      (1)   All vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   RANK WEEDS does not include tented crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
   THICKETS. Dense growths of wild shrubbery having stems or trunk is less than
one inch in diameter and briar patches.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.46 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants, which are allowed to stand at any
season of the year upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the
sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of
land, are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance; provided that, this chapter
shall not apply to land zoned or used for agricultural use which is more than
150 feet distant from occupied commercial or residential subdivision lot, tract
or parcel of land.
(Prior Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or
control of any lot, tract or parcel of land, expect as hereinbefore provided,
to allow rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants to grow or stand upon such
premises, or along the sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such
premises, and it shall be the duty of such owner to cut, remove or destroy any
and all such rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 NOTICE AND ORDER TO CUT, REMOVE OR DESTROY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the town shall determine that rank weeds, thickets or
noxious plants, or any combination thereof, are constituting a threat to the
public health, comfort, safety or welfare. The town shall give at least ten
days’ notice to the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the
current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office before the town holds
a hearing or takes actions.
      (2)   The notice shall order the property owner to cut or mow the
vegetation on the property, and said notice shall further state that unless
such work is performed within ten days of the date of the notice the work shall
be done by the town and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing the town.
      (3)   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the town
shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if the property owner cannot be located within ten days from the date of
mailing by the town, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one time not less
than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town.
   (B)   Abatement of the nuisance in accordance with the provisions of § 91.51
(A)(3) of this chapter, the notice, whether by certified mail, posting or
publication, shall state:
      (1)   Any accumulations of rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants, or any
combination thereof, on the owner’s property occurring within six months after
the cutting or mowing of rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants, or any
combination thereof, on the property pursuant to such notice may be summarily
abate by the town;
      (2)   The costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner;
and
      (3)   A lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all
without further prior notice to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-404) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.49 CONSENT OR HEARING.
   (A)   The owner may give written consent, authorizing the town to abate the
nuisance under § 91.51 of this chapter. Such consent shall waive his or her
right to a hearing under division (C) below.
   (B)   At any time within ten days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this subchapter, the owner may request, in writing to the town,
a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the determination that
a nuisance exists upon his or her property. The town shall conduct such hearing
as soon as may be practicable.
   (C)   At such hearing, such owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony or evidence and arguments, and to cross-examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the town, after such
hearing, shall determine that rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants constitute
a nuisance detrimental to health or a fire or traffic hazard on such property,
and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such hearing arc
owners of the property upon which such nuisance is located, he or she shall
file in writing his or her findings of fact, and his or her order that such
nuisance be abated within ten days, and shall cause such findings and order to
be served upon such owner at the conclusion of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-405) (Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
§ 91.50 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; COLLECTION COSTS.
   (A)   Abatement by town.
      (1)   In the event of the following, the town may cause such nuisance to
be abated forthwith by cutting, removing or destroying same, in as many
instances as may be necessary for continual abatement of the nuisance, may
cause a complaint to be filed against such owner in the Municipal Court for
violation of provisions of this subchapter, or both:
         (a)   No hearing shall have been requested as provided for in this
subchapter;
         (b)   The town, or Town Board of Trustees, after such hearing, shall
have ordered such nuisance to be abated as aforesaid; and
         (c)   Such nuisance shall not have been abated within the respective
period specified.
      (2)   To effect abatement, the town may cause the nuisance to be abated
by employees for the town or, in the alternative, the town may prepare
appropriate specification, advertise for bids and award a contract for such
abatement to the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating such nuisance, in
each and every instance where it is abated, shall be borne by the property
owner and shall be assessed as hereinafter provided.
      (3)   If the town causes property within the municipal limits to have its
weeds or grass cut or mowed, any subsequent accumulations of excessive weed or
grass growth on the property occurring within a six-month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without prior notice to
the property owner. At the time of each summary abatement, the town shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days after
the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for
in §
91.49 of this chapter.
      (4)   Immediately following the cleaning of the property, the town shall
file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property and the
work performed by the municipality, and stating that the municipality claims a
lien on said property for the cleaning cost or bill the program.
(Prior Code, § 8-407)
   (B)   Collection of town’s costs.
      (1)   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located
has failed or refused to abate said nuisance, the town shall cause said
nuisance to be abated either by employees for the town or, in the alternative,
by the contractor who has submitted the lowest and best bid for such work. The
actual and necessary cost required to be expended by the town together with
such administrative expense for mailing of notices and the like, said
administrative expenses not to exceed the amount established in the general
schedule of fees, and the total of said costs shall be certified to the office
of the town, who shall be responsible for all of said costs to the property
owner.
      (2)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing
of the statement, thetown shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located
and such costs shall be a lien against the property, until paid, and shall be
collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property, and when
collected shall be paid to the town. Until fully paid, the cost and the
interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from
and after the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-408)
(Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
FOOD REGULATIONS
§ 91.65 U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The unabridged form of the latest edition of the United States Public
Health Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. Three copies of the sanitation
ordinance and code shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk. The
Sanitation Ordinance and Code shall govern the definitions, inspection of food
service establishments, the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments, the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section. In the
Sanitation Ordinance and Code, however, all parenthetical phrases referring to
grading and the following subsections shall be understood to be deleted:
subsections H.2.e., H.7 and H.8.
   (B)   HEALTH AUTHORITY shall mean the Director of the County Health
Department or his or her designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   State food regulations, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq.
§ 91.66 MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   Part 11 of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance 1965, recommended by the
U.S. Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to
govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the town limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants; the
issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors.
At least three copies of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed in the
office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by §§
91.67 and
91.99(D)(1) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
Statutory reference:
   Regulating milk standards, see 2 O.S. §§ 7-402 et seq.
§ 91.67 GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments; provided that, in an emergency, or the grade which is unknown,
may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk and milk
products shall be labeled “ungraded”.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any
person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through 91.30 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of
an offense against the town.
      (2)   Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day’s
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate
offense and may be chargeable as such.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
   (C)   Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who shall
violate any of the provisions of §§
91.45 through 91.52 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of an offense against the town. Each day’s continuous violation shall
constitute a separate offense and may be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 8-409)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who generally violates any of the provisions of §§
91.65 through
91.67 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §
91.65 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. In addition thereto, any person convicted of
violation may be enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
(Ord. 98-11-1, passed 11- -1998)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Enforcement
   
92.03   Definition
   
92.04   Limits for storage of flammable liquids, bulk storage of liquified
petroleum gases, explosives and blasting agents
   
92.05   Modifications
   
92.06   Appeals
   
92.07   Fire limits
   
92.08   Burning trash, grass and the like
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the town’s Board of Trustees for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention
Code, abbreviated edition, recommended by the American Insurance Association,
being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   Not less than three copies of the code have been and now are filed in
the office of the Clerk of the town and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (C)   The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be controlling within
the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.03 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.04 LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The limits referred to in § 73, Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in § 103, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
restricted, and the limits referred to in § 53b, in which storage of explosives
and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as the fire limits
provided in §
92.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.05 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted in his or her own discretion or upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
letter of the code; provided that, the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modifications when granted or allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Fire
Department thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Department and for
applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.06 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board of Trustees
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.07 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following shall be, and are hereby declared to be the established fire
limits for the town: on the south, bounded by 164th Street; on the west,
bounded by the county line; on the north, bounded by the right-of-way of the
Deep Fork; and on the east bounded by 177.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f101f17b8e72a2a44b7599d3dd2531c0bef20bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1322.png]
 
(Prior Code , § 13-1 01)
§ 92.08 BURNING TRASH, GRASS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall burn or cause to burn or permit to be burned any trash
within town limits. All such trash shall be removed as provided by this code.
Outside the limits provided in this section trash may be burned in approved
incinerators made of incombustible material and as may be permitted by State
Department rules.
(Prior Code, § 13-101) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.08 of this chapter shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Skateboarding and other toy vehicles in park, public building
Board of Park Commissioners
   
93.15   “Park property” defined
   
93.16   Members not to be concerned in contracts or interested in park property
   
93.17   Gifts may be made to town
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SKATEBOARDING AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES IN PARK, PUBLIC BUILDING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, ride upon or propel any skateboard, roller-
blades, roller-skates or bicycle on or over any part of any building owned by,
or park located within, the town; or on any private property within said
jurisdiction conspicuously displaying signs that skateboarding, roller-blading,
roller-skating or bicycling are prohibited.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public street,
sidewalk, alley, plaza or parking area, which has been set aside for the
purpose of a community event, celebration or festival for which a revocable
permit has been approved by the Board of Trustees for the sole purpose of
skateboarding, roller-blading, roller-skating or bicycling.
(Ord. 2022-6-1, passed 6-6-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
§ 93.15 “PARK PROPERTY” DEFINED.
   The term PARK PROPERTY includes all parks, street parkings, and all
buildings, structures, improvements, seats, benches, fountains, boats, floats,
walks, drives, roads, trees, plants, herbages, flowers and other things
thereon, and the enclosures of the same, and all trees on streets or
thoroughfares, resting places, water stations, playgrounds or the like, and all
boulevards, parkways, roads or drives between parks.
(Prior Code, § 11-106)
§ 93.16 MEMBERS NOT TO BE CONCERNED IN CONTRACTS OR INTERESTED IN PARK
PROPERTY.
   No member of the Board shall be concerned in any contract with the town or
any of its departments, either as contractor, subcontractor, bondsman or other
party directly or indirectly interested.
(Prior Code, § 11-107)
§ 93.17 GIFTS MAY BE MADE TO TOWN.
   Real or personal property may be granted, bequeathed, devised or conveyed to
the town for the purpose of the improvement or ornamentation of such parks or
approaches, or for the establishment or maintenance therein of museums,
zoological or other gardens, collections of natural history, observatories,
monuments, statutes, fountains or other works of art, upon such trusts and
conditions as may be prescribed by the grantors or devisors thereof, and
accepted by the town’s Board of Trustees. All property so devised, granted,
bequeathed or conveyed, and the rents, issues, profits and income thereof shall
be subject to the exclusive management, direction and control of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-108)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted under §
93.01 of this chapter shall be ordered to pay a fine.
(Ord. 2022-6-1, passed 6-6-2002)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Purposes and construction
   
94.02   Housing discrimination acts prohibited
   
94.03   Exemptions
   
94.04   Fair Housing Board created; duties
   
94.05   Procedure for complaints
   94.06   Notices
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSES AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   (B)   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-801) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978)
§ 94.02 HOUSING DISCRIMINATION ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate
salesperson or corporation:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, sex, religion or national origin;
   (B)   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, because of such person’s race, sex, religion or national origin;
   (C)   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the ground of loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
or persons of another race, sex, religion or national origin, either by direct
solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed material or making statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his or her property due to such change in
neighborhood; or
   (D)   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, § 5-802) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall apply to any religious organization, association,
society or private club; a religious non-profit organization, operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units owned
and operated for other than a commercial purpose.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that,
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses and was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale
with the exception granted to one such sale within a 24-month period; provided
further that, such owner does not own or retain in his or her behalf title to a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further that, such sale or rental of
such single family house shall be excepted if such house is sold or rented
without the use in any manner of a sale or rental facilities or employee
thereof; or
      (2)   Any dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by no more than four families living independent of each other and the
owner actually occupies one such living quarter as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-803) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978)
§ 94.04 PROCEDURE FOR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice prohibited by this
chapter may file with theBoard a complaint in writing, under oath. The
complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, and shall
state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
Board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within 30 days after
the alleged violation, and failure to file within said time, shall be
considered a waiver of the application of this chapter. The Board may issue a
complaint on its own initiative, at any time it is within the knowledge of the
Board that a person has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall investigate each complaint filed with the Board,
and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation. Sixty days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation.
      (2)   Upon determination that a complaint is not well founded, the Board
shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and respondent in
writing of the dismissal. If the Board takes no action within 90 days of the
filing of the complaint, it shall be considered as dismissed.
   (C)   If conference or conciliation does not result in compliance with this
chapter, the Board shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the town
a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the person
named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as respondent, to answer
charges of the complaint at a hearing before the Board at a time and place to
be specified in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, provided for in division (C) above, the
complaint shall be heard by the Board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel. The Board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party, or at the direction of the Board.
      (2)   If the Board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged
in any discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it
shall state its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the Town
Attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this
chapter, except upon such certification.
      (3)   If the Board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not engaged
in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact and shall
issue and file an order dismissing the complaint. The Board shall establish
rules and regulations to govern and expedite and effectuate the foregoing
procedure, and shall maintain the files provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-806) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978)
§ 94.05 NOTICES.
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter, to be
served upon any person, may be served personally on such person, or by mailing
a copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested,
to the most current business or residence address of such person.
(Prior Code, § 5-807) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense and is subject, upon
conviction, to a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, including costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-808) (Ord. 406, passed 2-1-1978)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Cemetery policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   General rules; enforcement
   
95.04   Cemetery lots
   
95.05   Interments
   
95.06   Plants and shrubs
§ 95.01 CEMETERY POLICY.
   For the mutual protection of lot owners and the cemetery as a whole, the
following rules and regulations have been adopted by the town as the rules and
regulations of town cemetery, and all lot owners and visitors within the
cemetery and all lots sold shall be subject to the rules and regulations; and
subject further, to such other rules and regulations, amendments or alterations
as shall be adopted by the Town Board of Trustees from time to time, and the
reference to these rules and regulations in the deed or certificate of
ownership to a lot shall have the same force and effect as if set forth
therein.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicated or required a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. Includes a burial park for earth interments, a community mausoleum
for vault or crypt interments, a crematory or crematorium and columbarium for
cinerary interments or a combination of one or more than one thereof.
   CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP. Applies to the original conveyance given by the
cemetery to the original purchaser.
   CRYPT. Includes an underground chamber or vault serving as a burial place.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of the remains of a deceased person by
cremation and interment, entombment or burial.
   LOT. Applies to numbered divisions as shown on the record plat which
consists of two or more plots.
   LOT MAKER. A type of post used by the cemetery to locate comers of the lot
or plot.
   MAUSOLEUM. Includes a large, imposing tomb or small building serving as a
burial place.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker, tablet, headstone, tombstone, urn and crypt
and niche place.
   MONUMENT. Includes a tombstone or memorial or granite or marble which shall
extend above the surface of the ground.
   PLOT. Applies to a space of sufficient size to accommodate one adult
interment approximately three feet by ten feet.
   TEMPORARY MARKER. Includes markers made of synthetic or metallic materials
such as wood, plastic, tin as obtained from funeral homes or other sources.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)
§ 95.03 GENERAL RULES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Rules established. The town owns and operates the town cemetery in
accordance with the laws of the state and town. The following rules shall also
govern the cemetery and its maintenance, operations and grounds.
      (1)   Employees of the town are not expected to work on Saturdays,
Sundays or holidays, except when absolutely necessary in the preservation of
order, and as specified in the cemetery rules and regulations. Consequently,
funerals on Sundays and holidays will be permitted only in emergencies.
      (2)   Employees of the town are not permitted to do any work for lot
owners except upon order of the Cemetery Superintendent, but are required to be
civil and courteous to all visitors.
      (3)   All fees or charges for services are payable at the Town Clerk’s
office as herein stated and patrons of the cemetery are requested not to pay
any fee or gratuity to any employee.
      (4)   Persons within the cemetery shall use only the avenues, roads,
walks and alleys, and no one is permitted to walk upon or across lots or lawns
unless it be necessary to do so to gain access to one’s own lot. The cemetery
expressly disclaims liability for any injuries sustained by anyone violating
this rule.
      (5)   Persons visiting the cemetery or attending funerals are strictly
prohibited from picking flowers, wild or cultivated, breaking or injuring any
tree, shrub or plant or from writing upon, defacing or injuring any memorial,
fence or other structure within the cemetery grounds.
      (6)   Motor cars and vehicles must be kept under complete control at all
times. When meeting a funeral procession, they must stop until the procession
passes. They must not pass a funeral procession going in the same direction.
Motor cars must not be left with the engine running, and the emergency brakes
must be set when the driver is not in his or her seat. Mufflers must not be
opened, nor the horn sounded within the cemetery.
      (7)   The following activities are prohibited:
         (a)   The driving of motor cars or other vehicles through the gates or
in the cemetery at speeds exceeding five miles per hour;
         (b)   Driving any motor car, vehicle or animal across or upon any
grave, lot or lawn or parking or leaving the same thereon;
         (c)   Parking or leaving any motor car or vehicle on any road or
driveway within the cemetery as such location or in such position as to prevent
any other car or vehicle from passing the same, and if so parked or left, the
management will remove the car or vehicle; and
         (d)   Making a complete or partial reverse turn of any motor car or
vehicle on any road or driveway within the cemetery.
      (8)   Children under 15 years of age are not permitted within the
cemetery, or its buildings, unless accompanied by proper persons to take care
of them.
      (9)   Receptacles for waste materials are located at convenient places;
therefore, the throwing of rubbish on the drives and paths, or on any part of
the grounds, or in the buildings, is prohibited.
      (10)   (a)   The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs,
ornaments, chairs, settees, vases and similar articles upon plots will not be
permitted, and, if so placed, the management reserves the right to remove them.
The following are exceptions:
            1.   Memorial Day, when flowers, metal boxes, ornaments, glass
vases and similar objects will be allowed; however, they must be removed within
three days;
            2.   On Christmas, when blankets and decorations will be allowed,
and they must be removed by January 15; and
            3.   All other exceptions must be cleared by the Cemetery
Superintendent or Town Manager.
         (b)   Personal property removed by the Town Manager will be retained
for 30 days after removal so that property owners may claim their property if
they so desire.
      (11)   It is of the upmost importance that there should be strict
observance of the proprieties in the cemetery. Therefore, all persons within
the cemetery should avoid conduct unbecoming a sacred place, as follows:
         (a)   Loud or boisterous talking;
         (b)   Being about the grounds or in any of the buildings;
         (c)   Bringing lunches or refreshments into the cemetery or consuming
them on the grounds;
         (d)   Peddling or soliciting the sale of any commodity within the
cemetery;
         (e)   Placing of signs or notices or advertisements of any kind within
the cemetery;
         (f)   Bringing dogs into the cemetery or any of the buildings; and
         (g)   Bringing firearms into the cemetery except by a military escort
accompanying a veteran’s funeral or attending memorial services.
      (12)   It is the duty of the Town Manager to see that the rules and
regulations are complied with and it is his or her duty to see that order is
maintained and to protect and promote the best interests of the cemetery. To
that end, he or she is authorized to make temporary additional rules which may
be needed, from time to time, to meet emergencies which are not covered by
these rules and regulations.
      (13)   Special cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule
may impose unnecessary hardship. The Town Manager, therefore, is given the
necessary powers to make exceptions, suspensions, or modifications of any of
these rules and regulations, without notice, when in the judgment of the Town
Manager such action appears necessary; and such temporary exception, suspension
or modification shall in no way be construed as affecting the general
application of such rules and regulations.
(Prior Code. § 11-203)
   (B)   Enforcement of rules. The town is hereby empowered to enforce all
rules and regulations and to exclude from the cemetery any person violating the
same. The town shall have charge of the grounds and buildings, including the
conduct of funerals, traffic, employees, plot owners and visitors and at all
times shall have supervision and control of all persons in the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 11-209)
§ 95.04 CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   Lots and owners. The following provisions are applicable to lots and
lot owners.
      (1)   Persons desiring to purchase lots should visit the cemetery where
the management will aid them in making a selection. Payment for lots is to be
made at the Town Clerk’s office and a deed to lot will be issued upon receipt
of payment. A copy of the prices in effect for lot spaces is kept in the town
cleric’s office. Prices are subject to change by the town without notice.
      (2)   Lots of various sizes are available in the cemetery, and hence such
lots will not be subdivided.
      (3)   No lot shall be used for any other purpose than for the burial of
the human dead.
      (4)   No easement or right of interment is granted to any plot owner in
any road, drive, alley or walk within the cemetery, but such road, drive, alley
or walk may be used as a means of access to the cemetery or buildings, as long
as the Town Manager devotes it to that purpose.
      (5)   (a)   The right to enlarge, reduce, replace or change the
boundaries or grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections, from time to
time, including the right to modify or change the locations of or remove or
regrade roads, drives or walks, or any part thereof is hereby reserved.
         (b)   The right to lay, maintain and operate, or alter or change
pipelines or gutters for sprinkling systems or drainage is also expressly
reserved, as well as is the right of use cemetery property not sold to
individual plot owners for cemetery purposes, including interment of the dead,
or for anything necessary, incidental or convenient thereto. The town reserves
to itself and to those lawfully entitled thereto a perpetual right of ingress
and egress over plots for the purpose of passing to and from other plots.
      (6)   Descriptions of lots will be in accordance with the cemetery plats
which are kept on file in the Town Clerk’s office.
      (7)   The town will take all reasonable precautions to protect lot owners
and the property rights of plot owners within the cemetery from loss or damage;
but the cemetery distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage
from causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially from strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots or order of any military or civil authority, whether the
damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
      (8)   It is the duty of the plot owner to notify the town of any change
in his or her post office address.
      (9)   The instrument of conveyance of these rules and regulations and any
amendments thereto constitute the sole agreement between the town and the plot
owner. The statement of any employee or agent, unless confirmed in writing by
the town, shall in no way bind the cemetery.
      (10)   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power to limit the
placement of a community mausoleum for vaults and crypts for interments in
restricted areas.
      (11)   No private mausoleum shall be allowed after May 1, 1985.
      (12)   A crypt or concrete vault is allowed only with approval of the
Town Manager and subject to §§
95.05(B) and
95.06.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
   (B)   Care of lots.
      (1)   The general care of the cemetery is assumed by the town.
      (2)   The general care assumed by the town shall in no case mean the
maintenance, repair or replacement of any memorial, tomb or mausoleum placed or
erected upon lots; nor the doing of any special or unusual work in the
cemetery, including the work caused by the impoverishment of the soil; nor does
it mean the reconstruction of any marble or granite work or any section or
plot, or any portion or portions thereof in the cemetery, caused by the
elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers, malicious
mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections,
riots or by the order of any military or civil authority, whether the damage be
direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
      (3)   Lot owners desiring additional care of their lots may arrange for
such care through private contracts.
      (4)   The money received for perpetual care shall be held in trust and
invested as provided by law. The town reserves the right, however, either to
handle all investments itself, or to deposit the funds with any person, company
or corporation qualified to act as trustee for such funds.
      (5)   Concrete walkways will not be allowed between lots.
      (6)   Foundations for grave memorials must be of concrete not less than
five inches deep and extend no less than six inches around the circumference of
the memorial. Foundation requirements shall pertain to all memorials, including
double stones and family monuments and burial vaults that extend above the
surface of the surrounding terrain. Foundations must be level with surrounding
terrain:
         (a)   Grave memorials and foundations will not be installed until
proper location have been verified by the Town Manager or his or her
representative; and
         (b)   Each memorial, regardless of size, shall be subject to a setting
permit fee as set forth in §
10.99. The fee shall be paid to the Town Clerk prior to installation of the
memorial.
      (7)   No plot or lot shall be enclosed in any type of ground marker,
curbing or fencing.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
      (8)   The town will employ personnel responsible for upkeep and
maintenance of the cemetery. These personnel will be responsible for
maintenance of the cemetery including to mowing and any other upkeep as deemed
necessary. Personnel will also be utilized in marking of graves prior to
internment and marking of graves for setting of monuments, tombstones and the
like. These personnel are to report any violations of cemetery ordinances or
regulations to the Town Manager and are not permitted to directly enforce these
violations.
   (C)   Descent of title. The laws of the state govern the descent of title to
cemetery lots as well as other
matters pertaining to assignment, conveyance devices, trust deeds and
inalienability. The town will assist any lot owner who desires information or
advice on questions pertaining to his or her lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-206)
   (D)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign any and all
documents necessary to expedite implementation of this rates and policy for the
Wellston Cemetery.
(Res. 2014-01-01, passed 1-23-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   Application for interment permit. An application form as established
by the town, and on file in the office of the Town Clerk, shall be used to
secure an interment permit for interment within any cemetery operated by the
town. All applications must be submitted with a statement signed by family or
friends requesting interment that all fees have been explained and understood
by all parties.
(Prior Code, § 11-210)
   (B)   General provisions. The following provisions are applicable to
interments.
      (1)   The cemetery will be open to the public from sunrise to sunset.
      (2)   Where immediate burial is required by laws of the state or under
the rules and regulations of the state board of health, interments may be made
on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, otherwise, interments will be permitted
only Monday through Friday.
      (3)   All funerals, on entering the cemetery, shall be under the charge
of town personnel.
      (4)   Once a casket containing a body is within the confines of the
cemetery, no funeral director nor his or her embalmer, assistant, employee or
agent shall be permitted to open the casket or to touch the body without the
consent of the legal representative of the deceased or an order signed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Funeral directors, upon arrival at the cemetery, must present the
necessary burial permit from the local health office.
      (6)   All orders for interments in lots must be signed by the owner of
the lot or his or her legal representative. However, when this is impossible
because such person is absent from the town, telegraphic permission will be
accepted in lieu thereof.
      (7)   Lot owners shall not allow interments in their lots in return for
remuneration of any kind.
      (8)   No interment of two or more bodies shall be made in one grave
except in the case of mother and child or two infants in one casket.
      (9)   When an interment is to be made in a lot, the location of such
interment shall be designated by the lot owner. Should the lot owner fail or
neglect to make such designation, the town reserves the right to make the
interment in a location designated by the Town Manager.
      (10)   Funeral directors are responsible for opening graves. Funeral
directors or their contracted company or person is required to have proof of
liability insurance of a minimum of $50,000.00 coverage on file at the Wellston
Town Clerk’s office prior to any grave opening. Funeral directors are
responsible to place a temporary marker at the gravesite at the time of the
service. The only exceptions are as follows:
         (a)   When the cemetery is directed to make a disinterment by the
order of a court of competent jurisdiction and a certified copy of such order
has been filed with the town; or
         (b)   When the District Judge directs the disinterment for the purpose
of holding an inquest and has filed with the town his or her signed
authorization to release the body to himself or herself and his or her lawful
agents. In such case the disinterment must be made by his or her lawful agents.
Town employees will not be permitted to assist his or her agent.
      (11)   All charges for interment or services in connection therewith
shall be paid to the town which will issue a receipt therefore upon request. A
fee set by the town shall be charged for each adult interment and for each
child interment.
      (12)   Arrangements for the payment of any and all indebtedness due the
town must be made before interment will be made.
      (13)   The right is reserved by the town to insist upon at least 24-
hours’ notice prior to any interment and at least one week’s notice prior to
any disinterment or removal.
      (14)   All interments, disinterment’s and removals must be made at the
time, and in the manner fixed by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (15)   Besides being subject to these rules and regulations, all
interments, and disinterments and removals are made subject to the orders and
laws of the properly constituted public authorities.
      (16)   The town will not be responsible for any order give by telephone
or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and proper instructions
as to the particular space, size of grave and location in a plot, where
interment is desired.
      (17)   The town will not be liable for the interment permit nor for the
identity of the person sought to be interred.
(Prior Code, § 11-207)
      (18)   All interments, other than cremated remains, shall be placed in an
outer receptacles which must consist of steel, concrete, fiberglass or other
nonperishable materials or sufficient rigidity to resist pressures that are
applied as a result of ground burial.
(Ord. 1995-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.06 PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Permission from town required. There shall be no individual beds of
shrubbery or flowers allowed on the grounds except by special permission of the
town. Application for the same should be accompanied by a scaled sketch of the
proposed planting indicating the position and names of the plants and shrubs
suggested.
   (B)   Town authority to remove. The town shall have authority to remove all
floral designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any kind
from the cemetery as soon as, in the judgment of the town personnel, they
become unsightly, dangerous, detrimental or diseased, or when they do not
conform to the standards maintained or as heretofore set forth in the rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Non-liability of town.
      (1)   The town shall not be liable for floral pieces, baskets or frames
in which, or to which, such floral pieces are attached beyond the acceptance of
such floral pieces for cemetery services held in the cemetery.
      (2)   The town shall not be responsible for frozen plants or herbage of
any kind or for plantings damaged by the elements, thieves or by other causes
beyond its control.
   (D)   Resale of lot by owner; notice to town. The owner shall notify the
Town Clerk’s office any time his or her lot is resold.
   (E)   Town consent for removal. The town reserves the right to prevent the
removal of any flowers, floral designs, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any
kind unless the town gives consent.
(Prior Code, § 11-208)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   FARMER’S MARKETS
      
113.   FOOD TRUCKS
      
114.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS; SPECIAL EVENTS
      
116.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
Section
   
110.01   License tax levied on certain occupations
   
110.02   Ex-servicepersons
   
110.03   Payment of license tax; license issuance; expiration date
   
110.04   Separate licenses required
   
110.05   License to be displayed
   
110.06   License may be revoked
   
110.07   Transfer of license prohibited
   
110.08   Duplicate licenses
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied on every person engaging in,
exercising, or pursuing any of the following businesses, professions, trades,
occupations or privileges in this town, in the amounts respectively indicated:
      (1)   For each skating rink: $2 per day, $5 per week or $25 per year;
      (2)   For each itinerant show, exhibition or entertainment of any kind
which charges admission, including all activities under its auspices: $5 per
day. This division (A)(2) shall not apply to circuses, street fairs and
carnivals, nor to any athletic exhibition given by public or private schools,
nor to any event given under the auspices of a local non-profit organization,
nor to any event from which all the proceeds go to some charitable or
eleemosynary cause;
      (3)   For each circus, street fair or carnival: $10 per day or $25 per
week. This division (A)(3) shall not apply to events sponsored by civic clubs
located in the school district or by the town;
      (4)   For each shooting gallery, skill or strength game or game of
chance, such as knife boards, rag or wooden images or other thing or things at
which rings, balls or other things are thrown, pitched or shot, lung testing or
striking machine, or similar device: $2 per day or $5 per month. This division
(A)(4) shall not apply to games under the auspices of street fairs, carnivals
and circuses, nor to family recreation halls or arcades;
      (5)   For each Ferris wheel, merry-go-round, small cars or similar
apparatus, when not under the auspices of a street fair, civic club, carnival
or circus: $2 per day or $5 per month; or
      (6)   For each itinerant person, agent or solicitor selling, offering for
sale, taking orders for, auctioning or offering to take orders for, goods,
products, wares, patent medicines, magazines, services or other things or
services of any kind, excepting food trucks, food truck operators, wholesales
and persons or organizations licensed or regulated by the state: $25 per day,
$50 per week or $125 per year. The permit shall expire at sunset of the date
issued. No proration of the fee is permitted. This division (A)(6) shall not
apply to persons selling farm products produced by themselves in the state, nor
to persons representing any charitable and non-profit organization located in
or from the county.
   (B)   In order to receive a license under this business regulation title,
every person, firm or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is
required to possess a valid and current state sales tax permit if such person,
firm or corporation is a vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the
Sales Tax Code of the town and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided
by the applicant for a license to the Town Clerk prior to issuance of the town
license. The Town Clerk may require any reasonable information from an
itinerant or peddler or solicitor which the Clerk deems desirable to protect
the public interest. ITINERANT means not residing in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 2020-10-01, passed 10-8-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106,
22-107
§ 110.02 EX-SERVICEPERSONS.
   Nothing in this business regulation title or in other ordinances of the town
shall be deemed to require ex-servicepersons to secure a license or pay a
license fee for engaging in a business, occupation or privilege when he or she
is exempted therefrom by statutes of the state or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX; LICENSE ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is
levied by §
110.01 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
Upon making proper application to the Town Clerk, the payment of the license
tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law or
ordinance, the Town Clerk shall issue a license therefor. Such license taxes
shall be credited to the General Fund of the town.
   (B)   Annual licenses shall expire on April 30 of the year for which they
were issued. When an annual license is issued after May 1 for the remainder of
the year to a person just beginning to engage in, exercise or pursue a
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the tax collected shall
be a fractional part of the annual tax equal to the fraction of the year
remaining, with a minimum of $5.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege for which a license is required, at or from more
than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises or pursues more than
one such business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall pay the
fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 110.05 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
shall display it to any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of
displaying such licenses provided above, when licenses are required for coin-
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face.
   (B)   It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, may be revoked
by the Board of Trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either
of the following reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)
§ 110.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-107)
Statutory reference:
   License may not be transferred, see 11 O.S. § 22-107
§ 110.08 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is
issued, the holder shall make, and file with the Town Clerk an affidavit that
the license has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed
without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed
lost, he or she has made diligent search for it and has been unable to find it.
The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Town Clerk, shall be
set by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-108)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this business
regulations title, without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall
violate any provision of this business regulations title, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Violation of this business regulations title
shall also be grounds for revocation or suspension of license granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-114)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions and interpretations
   
111.02   Occupation tax levied; license to be issued
   
111.03   Payment of tax and securing of license required
   
111.04   Town Clerk to make annual report
   
111.05   Retail package stores; location
   
111.06   Premises to be separated for sale of alcoholic beverages and other
goods
   
111.07   Days and hours of operation
   
111.08   Sole only in original package
   
111.09   Regulations applicable to alcoholic beverages
   
111.10   Package store sign
   
111.11   Advertising
Non-Intoxicating Beverages
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   License fee levied
   
111.27   License required
   
111.28   Compliance with law; expiration of license
   
111.29   Revocation of license
   
111.30   Minors not to be employed
   
111.31   Intoxicated persons; gambling; disorderly conduct
   
111.32   Sale and purchase to or by minors
   
111.33   Minors; possession of alcoholic beverages or beer prohibited
   
111.34   Drinking in public
   
111.35   Hours of sale
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Word, phrases and terms used in this subchapter shall have the meaning
prescribed by, and be construed in conformity with, the definitions of the same
set forth in the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et
seq., with the same force and effect as if the definitions were set forth in
full in this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning or constructions.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED; LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   An annual occupation tax is hereby levied on persons engaging in the
following businesses or occupations within the town in the amounts respectively
indicated:
Brewer               $1,250
Class B wholesaler   $625
Distiller            $3,125
Oklahoma winemaker   $75
Rectifier            $2,500
Retail package store $200
Wholesaler           $2,000
Winemaker            $625
 
   (B)   The license fee for brewers and for Class B wholesalers shall be
reduced by 75% if the applicant therefor is also the holder of a license to
manufacture or wholesale, as the case may be, any intoxicating beverages as
provided by 37A O.S.
   (C)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on June
30 of the year for which issued. The cost of a license of any type or class
applied for during the fiscal year shall be a pro rata part of the cost of the
yearly license; provided that, the cost of the license shall be computed on a
monthly basis. Any license issued on or before the fifteenth day of any month
shall be charged for on the basis of the first day of the next month.
   (D)   A person desiring to engage in any of the above businesses or
occupations within the town shall make application for a license therefor to
the Town Clerk, and pay to the Town Clerk the above required occupation tax. If
the applicant carries on his or her occupation in more than one location within
the town limits, he or she shall be subject to tax for each location. If the
applicant holds a valid state license to engage in the business or occupation
within the town issued by the Director of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board, if the application is in accordance with this subchapter, and if
the applicant has paid the required town occupation tax, then the Town Clerk
shall issue the license applied for. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the premises wherein the licensee carries on the
occupation.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
Statutory reference:
   State license and fees, town not to levy greater fee, see 37A O.S. § 4-104
§ 111.03 PAYMENT OF TAX AND SECURING OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the businesses or
occupations upon which this subchapter levies an occupation tax without having
paid the town occupation tax levied by this subchapter and without having a
valid license from the Town Clerk provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 TOWN CLERK TO MAKE ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk shall make an annual report as of the close of business on
June 30 each year to the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board showing the
number and class of licenses issued and the amount of money received therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 111.05 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES; LOCATION.
   (A)   No retail package store or any other business licensed by this
subchapter shall be located or operated at any place, except at locations
permitted by the town’s zoning or planning laws.
   (B)   (1)   The location of a retail package store is specifically
prohibited within 300 feet from any church property primarily and regularly
used for worship services and religious activities, or a public school.
      (2)   However, if any such church or school shall be established within
300 feet of any licensed retail premises after such premises have been
licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it
has been in continuous force and effect. The distance indicated in this section
shall be measured from the nearest property entrance door of the premises of
such package store along the street right-of-way line providing the nearest
direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points.
      (3)   For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated
on the opposite side of the street from such church or school. A license shall
not be issued for a location on any block where a school or church is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 PREMISES TO BE SEPARATED FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND OTHER
GOODS.
   (A)   The premises of a retail package store shall be separated from the
premises on which any other goods, wares or merchandise are sold or services
are rendered, by non-transparent walls which may be broken by a passageway to
which the public is not admitted for the purpose of selling, reselling or
delivering in connection with the sale of the alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway
described in this section for the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage
or for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such
beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail package store
or any employee or agent thereof to keep the premises of the retail package
store open for the purpose of selling, or to sell, any alcoholic beverages at
any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday; or on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or
special election; or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SALE ONLY IN ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages only in retail containers
in the original package for consumption off the premises. Alcoholic beverages
may be sold only at ordinary room temperatures.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   Knowingly to sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is under the age of 21, to misrepresent his or her age in writing
or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any person to
sell him or her alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   To employ any person under the age of 21 years in the selling or
handling of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Who is a licensee or an agent or employee thereof to permit any person
under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within or loiter about a licensed
premises;
   (E)   Knowingly to sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
   (F)   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises or a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
   (G)   To transport in any vehicle upon any street, alley or other public way
within the town any alcoholic beverage, except in the original container, which
shall not have been opened and the seal of which shall not have been broken,
and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the
opened container be in the trunk or any closed compartment or other container
out of public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the
vehicle;
   (H)   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; and/or
   (I)   Who is the operator of a café, restaurant, club or any place of
recreation, to permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PACKAGE STORE SIGN.
   No person owning, operating or maintaining a retail alcoholic beverage
package store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than one sign,
which shall contain only the words “Retail Alcoholic Liquor Store” or any
combinations of such words or any of them, and which shall contain no letter or
figure more than four inches in height or more than three inches in width and
in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall not be more than one inch
apart.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, in any manner, other
than as authorized by this subchapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages within
the limits of this town.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
111.99
NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet attained the age at which a person is
permitted to consume non-intoxicating beverages under state law.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol
by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association or concessionaire
who sells, distributes or dispenses at retail, any non-intoxicating beverage
within the corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where
such beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
§ 111.26 LICENSE FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in non-intoxicating
beverages for consumption on or off the premises an annual occupation tax of
$20, and an annual license fee of $10 for sale of non-intoxicating beverages
which are in original packages and are not for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   All such municipal license fees taxes shall be paid to the Town Clerk
at the time of issuance of license and in the manner prescribed herein.
   (C)   (1)   All license fees levied under the provisions of this subchapter
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
      (2)   The amount of any license fee levied shall be computed pro rata
from the months remaining in the year ending June 30.
      (3)   Such fees paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be
on the basis of the first day of the month and such fees paid after the
fifteenth day of the month shall be on the basis of the first day of the next
succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 111.27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, to
sell, distribute or dispense any non-intoxicating beverages without having
first received a municipal license, as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the Town Clerk
without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained all state and
county permits required by law, and has in all other respects complied with the
state and local alcoholic beverage control requirements. No license shall be
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 111.29 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees shall have power, after public hearing, to
revoke any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the
license holder.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 111.30 MINORS NOT TO BE EMPLOYED.
   It is unlawful for any owner, manager or operator of a place where non-
intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, except an
eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main
business of serving food, to employ a minor to work in such place.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 INTOXICATED PERSONS; GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a place where
non-intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises to sell or
otherwise furnish such beverages to an intoxicated person or to permit an
intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a lottery; sale, furnishing or
drinking of intoxicating liquor; disorderly conduct; loud or disturbing
language, noise or music; profane language; or any other violation of the laws
of the state or of the ordinances of the town, or for any person to engage in
any such activity or conduct in such a place.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a place to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to fight, box, wrestle or engage in other contests
of physical strength in such a place.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 SALE AND PURCHASE TO OR BY MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for sale,
give away, procure for or otherwise dispense to any minor any non-intoxicating
beverage; or for any minor to purchase, receive or procure any non-intoxicating
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 MINORS; POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR BEER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any minor to be in possession of any non-
intoxicating beverages more than 0.5% of alcohol measured by including 3.2%
beer, while such person is on any public street, road or highway, or in any
public building or place.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to drink any
non-intoxicating beverage while such person is upon any public street, alley or
other public highway, or in any public building or other public place within
the town.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking
such beverage in a place licensed to sell it for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 HOURS OF SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell non-intoxicating
beverages for consumption on the premises to sell the same between the hours of
12:00 a.m. midnight Saturday and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday; and on
other days of the week between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 7:00 a.m.
of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.11 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
111.25 through
111.35 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
CHAPTER 112: FARMER’S MARKETS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permitted uses
   
112.03   Operating rules
   
112.04   Market manager
   
112.05   Parking
   
112.06   Waste
   
112.07   Bike storage
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   FARM PRODUCTS. Fruit, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey
or other bee products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products,
(including meat, milk, cheese and other dairy products) and fish.
   FARMER’S MARKET. An outdoor market at a fixed location, open to the public,
operated by a government agency, a non-profit corporation, or one or more
producers, at which:
      (1)   At least 75% of the vendors sell farm products or value-added farm
products; and
      (2)   At least 75% of the vendors who regularly participate during the
market’s hours of operation are producers, or family members, or employees of
producers.
   PRODUCER. A person or entity that raises or produces farm products on land
that the person or entity farm and owns, rents or leases.
   VALUE ADDED FARM PRODUCT. Any product processed by a producer from a farm
product, such as baked goods, jams and jellies.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 112.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Farmer’s markets are a permitted use in downtown commercial, neighborhood
commercial, institutional, public, mixed-use, open space subject to the
following regulations.
   (A)   Compliance with all laws. All farmer’s markets and their vendors shall
comply with all federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the
operation, use and enjoyment of the market premises.
   (B)   Permits and licenses. All farmer’s markets and their vendors shall be
responsible for all required operating and health permits, licenses and
certificates of insurance, and these documents shall be in the possession of
the market manager or the vendor as applicable, on the site of the farmer’s
market during all hours of operation. The town will not charge a permit fee for
the farmer’s market premises.
   (C)   Acceptance of payment from food assistance programs. For eligible
goods or products sold, all farmer’s markets and their vendors shall accept all
forms of payment, or shall allow a legitimate and duly authorized third party
to occupy space within the farmer’s market area to operate a redemption
program, by participation of federal, state or local food assistance programs,
including, but not limited to, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
(SNAP), the Women, Infant and Children (WIC) Farmer’s Market Nutrition Program;
and their Senior Farmer’s Market Nutrition Program, all in a manner allowed by,
and in conformance with, both federal and state laws and regulations, and those
laws and regulations may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 112.03 OPERATING RULES.
   All farmer’s markets shall have an established set of operating rules
addressing the governance of the farmer’s market, hours of operation,
maintenance, insurance, security requirements and responsibilities and an
appointment of a market manager.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 112.04 MARKET MANAGER.
   All farmer’s markets shall have a market manager authorized to direct the
operation of all vendors participating in the market on the site of the market
during all hours of operation.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 112.05 PARKING.
   (A)   All farmer’s markets shall provide for a minimum of one vehicle
parking space for each vendor stall.
   (B)   All farmer’s markets shall provide for one parking space for shoppers
per each vendor stall.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
§ 112.06 WASTE.
   All farmer’s markets provide for composting, recycling and waste removal in
accordance with all town codes. The farmer’s market manager is responsible for
ensuring that the site is restored to a neat condition by no later than the end
of the farmer’s market day.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 BIKE STORAGE.
   All farmer’s markets to provide a secure place for patrons to store their
bicycles during their stay at the market.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, passed 2-14-2018)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Geographical restrictions
   
113.03   Violations; obstructions
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer or expose for sale or have in his or her
possession with intent to sell directly from a vehicle to the consumer any food
product unless a license has first been obtained from the town. A license may
be issued upon verification of the following:
      (1)   Verification that the applicant is the holder of a food
establishment license issued by the state’s Commissioner of Health;
      (2)   Verification that the applicant meets all State Department of
Health and County Health Department requirements governing food trucks and/or
mobile food establishments; and
      (3)   Obtaining written confirmation of the times and places where the
applicant intends to operate and/or conduct business.
   (B)   The licensing fees shall be governed by §
110.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-10-01, passed 10-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 GEOGRAPHICAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No mobile vender shall sell or vend from his or her vehicle or conveyance
when:
   (A)   Within 150 feet of a restaurant, café or eating establishment which is
open for business unless authorized in writing by the stationary business
establishment;
   (B)   Within 150 feet of a public or private school grounds during the hours
of regular school session, classes or school-related events in said public or
private school, except when authorize in writing by said school;
   (C)   Within 150 feet of town property where a town authorized concession
stand is located during the course of a public celebration when non-profit
organizations are permittee to engage in the sale of merchandise and food as
such property;
   (D)   Within 150 feet of the location for which a special event permit has
been issued during the time specified from the start through completion of the
special event;
   (E)   Upon private property without the express written permission of the
property owner; or
   (F)   Upon property owned by the town without the express written permission
of the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 2020-10-01, passed 10-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 VIOLATIONS; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile vender shall conduct business so as to violate any
ordinances of the town regulating traffic and rights-of-way, as now in effect
or hereafter amended.
   (B)   No mobile vender shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed the passage
of a sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or any other public place by causing
people to congregate at or near the place where food or other items are being
sold or offeree for sale.
   (C)   Customers shall be served on the street side of the mobile unit. All
service must be on the curb side when the mobile unit is on or abutting a
public street.
   (D)   Absolutely no seating shall be provided or permittee as part of a
mobile vendor business as contemplate in this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-10-01, passed 10-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Business license and permit requirements
   
114.03   Location restrictions
   
114.04   Conditions of operation
   
114.05   Commercial marijuana growing facilities
   
114.06   Wholesale marijuana facilities
   
114.07   Marijuana storage facilities
   
114.08   Marijuana processing facilities
   
114.09   Personal marijuana growing facilities
   
114.10   Permit inspections and other requirements
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS are defined as any retail marijuana
establishment licensed by the state.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 114.02 BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to
obtain a retail marijuana establishment permit and a business license from the
Town Clerk or designee.
   (B)   The retail marijuana establishment permit fee shall be set forth by
resolution by the Town Board. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   (C)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially zoned
area of the corporate town limits.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 114.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to and
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
of the following uses:
      (1)   Any library or museum;
      (2)   Any public playground;
      (3)   Any childcare center;
      (4)   Any public park, pool or recreation facility;
      (5)   Any juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      (6)   Any church;
      (7)   Within 300 feet of another medical marijuana or retail marijuana
establishment; or
      (8)   One thousand feet of any private or public school, preschool,
elementary, secondary, high school, vocational or trade school, college or
university.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest entry of the parcel of land on which the above-described use is located
to the nearest building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana
establishment would be located.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   (B)   The retail establishment must collect the appropriate sales tax on all
sales.
   (C)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday. Operations shall be closed on Sundays, as well
as Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4 and New Year’s Day.
   (D)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   (E)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this chapter be construed
to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   Commercial marijuana growing facilities are not allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 WHOLESALE MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   Wholesale marijuana facilities are not allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Marijuana storage facilities other than in a retail outlet are not allowed
within the municipal boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   Marijuana processing facilities are not allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL USE.
   (A)   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
are required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk or designee.
   (B)   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit fee shall
be set forth by resolution by the Town Board. The fee shall be used to offset
municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of marijuana growing facilities for personal
medical use.
   (C)   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failure to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times, except when the residential facility is actively
being supervised in person by the permit holder.
   (E)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (F)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (G)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting input power shall not exceed 1,000 watts per
light, and power factor greater than 0.8. The growing atmosphere must be non-
enhanced, natural air.
   (H)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (I)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning
cooking, eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress
and egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation
will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or
sanitation/bathing.
   (J)   If the residence is rented consent of the property owners shall be
obtained in writing prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be
evidenced by a signed and notarized statement from the property owner
permitting the growth of marijuana in a residence.
   (K)   Marijuana grown for personal use may not be given, sold or traded to a
third party.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10 PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection by
an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Municipal Inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   (E)   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
(Ord. 2021-09-03, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS; SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Pool, billiard and other recreation halls; proper operation
   
115.02   Fortune-telling fee prohibited
   
115.03   Handbills; permit required
   
115.04   Sound trucks; permits
   
115.05   Short weights and measures
Special Events
   
115.20   Definitions
   
115.21   Application procedure
   
115.22   Permit regulations
   
115.23   Department review
   
115.24   Permit revocation
   
115.25   Fees
   
115.26   Town process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 POOL, BILLIARD AND OTHER RECREATION HALLS; PROPER OPERATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a pool, billiard
or other recreation hall to permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a
lottery or the sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating and non-
intoxicating beverages, disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language, noise
or music, profane language or any other violation of the laws of the state or
of the ordinances of the town, or for any person to engage therein in such
place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a hall to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to engage therein in such place.
   (C)   Any coin-operated amusement device, including pool and billiard
tables, shall be properly licensed pursuant to state law in order to operate
lawfully in the town.
   (D)   Pool, billiard and other recreation halls shall be closed between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 7:00 a.m. each day.
(Prior Code, § 9-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State tax on coin operated amusement devices definitions, see 68 O.S. §§
1501 et seq.
   Towns authorized to license pool and billiard tables, family amusement
centers, see 68 O.S. § 50004
§ 115.02 FORTUNE-TELLING FEE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyance or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or vocation
within the town, to make any charge therefor either directly or indirectly, or
to receive any gift, donation or compensation by any means whatsoever for the
same.
(Prior Code, § 9-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 HANDBILLS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall distribute newspapers, handbills, tracts or books within the
town limits without first securing a written permit from the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 SOUND TRUCKS; PERMITS.
   No person shall play any phonograph or use sound cars or loud-speaking
equipment on the streets of the town, either for advertising, politics or any
other purpose, without first securing a written permit from the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.05 SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, any food, fuel,
clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much,
according to standard weights or measures of the state as the weight or measure
for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 9-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 115.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ATHLETIC EVENT. An athletic activity involving running, walking and/or
cycling and associated activities conducted over, under, upon and/or across a
public right-of-way.
   CARNIVAL. Any public amusement show including rides, games and/or sideshows.
   FESTIVAL. A public celebration featuring cultural exhibitions, competitions,
performances, art, merchandise and/or vendor sales.
   MAJOR EVENT. Any event other than an approved minor event.
   MINOR EVENT. An Event which meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   Involves the closing of less than one city block;
      (2)   Is less than 24 hours in duration, including set-up and tear-down
time;
      (3)   Involves less than 500 participants; and
      (4)   Has no impact on town services.
   ORGANIZER. The person or entity in charge of organizing and conducting a
permitted special event.
   OUTDOOR SPECIAL EVENT or EVENT. A temporary public assembly outside the
confines of an enclosed structure on private and/or public property including,
but not limited to, carnivals, festivals, parades and athletic events, but
shall not include special events in parks.
   PARADE. An organized procession upon a festive or ceremonial occasion.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY EVENTS. Events conducted solely on private property, not
open to the public and not requiring the use of any public right-of-way.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, sidewalk, alley and/or easement dedicated
to the public use.
   SITE PLAN. A diagram approximately to scale depicting all public rights-of-
way sought to be closed and utilized for the conduct of the event, the location
of any structure, stand, tent, vehicle, sign, restroom facilities, trash
receptacles and/or displays to be used while conducting the event.
   SPECIAL EVENT SITE. Geographic limits of all activities conducted as a part
of the special event. For athletic events, it includes the route of the event.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN. The method of providing traffic control through and
around the special event site showing the placement of all necessary temporary
traffic-control devices.
   VENDOR. Any person or entity engaged in the provision of merchandise,
services or food and beverages for a fee at any special event or tickets
therefor.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 115.21 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicants for a special events permit under this subchapter shall
file with the special event permit coordinator a verified application on a form
to be furnished by the event permit coordinator.
   (B)   The complete application shall be received by the special event permit
coordinator not less than the following days prior to the commencement of the
event:
      (1)   Major events: 75 days;
      (2)   Minor events: 30 days; and
      (3)   Private property events: 30 days.
   (C)   Applications will be processed in the order in which complete
applications are received. If a scheduling conflict occurs, preference will be
given to long standing annual events on the customary date.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 115.22 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The permit shall be subject to, and subordinate to, any franchise for
the use of the public rights-of-way previously or subsequently granted by the
town to any public utilities, firms or corporations, and the permit shall
further be subject to, and subordinate to, the right and power of the town to
construct, operate and maintain any public utilities or public facilities in,
above and under the public right-of-way.
   (B)   During the permit period, organizer will be authorized to limit
motorized vehicle access to the event site by the placement of temporary
barricades as illustrated on the approved traffic control plan.
   (C)   No fee may be charged for admission to an event site conducted on
public rights-of-way.
   (D)   The organizer is authorized to limit and regulate temporary exhibits,
promotional activities, peddlers, entertainers and vendor sales within the
event site; provided, free unregulated access to permanent businesses and
operations of such businesses on private property within or adjacent to the
event site shall not be inhibited.
   (E)   (1)   The organizer shall not make or suffer any use of occupancy of
the event site contrary to any law, state statute or town ordinance currently
in effect or hereafter adopted. At all times during the operation of the event,
the organizer shall comply with all requests and requirements made by
representatives of the Town Administrator, Director of Emergency Management,
Chief of Police, Fire Chief and/or Director of Public Works of the town with
respect to security, surveillance and public safety, traffic control,
barricades, pedestrian matters, fire safety and all matters related thereto;
and at all times the foregoing town officials and their designated agents shall
be allowed to fully inspect the operation of the event and the event site.
      (2)   The organizer shall also comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   All lane and street closure locations authorized under the
permit are shown on the event traffic control plan. All closures shall be in
foil conformance with the requirements of the current edition of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. The placement of traffic-control devices shall
be reviewed by the Director of Emergency Management or his or her designee.
         (b)   The organizer must, if applicable, contact the town’s Police
Department for escort or traffic control.
         (c)   Trespassing special events onto private property is not
permitted. This requirement shall in no way limit permissive use of private
property.
         (d)   There shall be no damage, drilling, painting or construction
upon town streets, sidewalks or other public property unless specifically
authorized in writing by the Town Administrator or his or her designated agent.
   (F)   The organizer shall bear, pay and discharge all taxes, assessments,
duties, impositions and burdens whatsoever assessed, charged or imposed within
or upon and in connection with the use of the event site by organizer, except
as may be exempted by local, state or federal laws or regulations and to
deliver to the town the proper and sufficient receipts and other evidence of
the prompt payment and discharge of same, if any.
   (G)   The organizer shall bear, pay and discharge any and all obligations,
costs, fees or expenses incurred by organizer for the construction, erection
and removal of any improvements and/or services provided within the event site
or connected with the event, and shall bear, pay and discharge all costs or
expenses incurred by organizer in connection with the maintenance or repair of
any such improvements within the event site during the term of the permit.
   (H)   (1)   The organizer shall dismantle and remove any improvements and
shall clean up all trash and debris from the event site generated by the event
as provided in the revocable right-of-way use permit within the term of the
permit.
      (2)   In the event the organizer fails to fulfill these obligations in a
timely manner, the town shall have the right to do or have done such work and
recover the cost of such work from organizer.
      (3)   Further, failure of organizer to comply with the provisions of this
section shall constitute grounds for denial of subsequent permit requests.
   (I)   The organizer shall indemnify and hold the town and public trusts of
which it is the sole beneficiary, harmless from all claims, suits, actions or
judgments, including, but not limited to, all expenses, attorneys’ fees,
witness fees and all other costs of defending any such action or claim or
appeals therefrom, arising out of any defect of the event site or from the
maintenance, operation or conduct of the event by organizer, its agents or
employees or its invitees, vendors or licensees.
   (J)   (1)   For major events occupying all or a portion of public rights-of-
way, the organizer shall obtain and maintain in effect an insurance policy with
comprehensive general liability coverage sufficient to pay the town’s maximum
liability under the Governmental Tort Claims Act (51 O.S. §§ 151 et seq.), as
it may be amended from time to time, covering any alleged liability and costs
of defense of the town for any claim under any theory arising in connection
with the event, said coverages shall be effective during the entire term of the
permit on an occurrence basis.
      (2)   Said insurance policy shall name the town and public trusts, of
which it is the sole beneficiary, as additional insured and provide that
coverage cannot be canceled or materially modified except upon ten days’ prior
written notice to the town of said cancellation or modification.
      (3)   The organizer shall pay any and all insurance deductibles that are
required to be paid under the insurance policy.
      (4)   An original certificate of insurance with proof of receipts of
premium showing compliance with all of these terms and conditions shall be
delivered to the town 15 days prior to the Board consideration of the revocable
permit.
   (K)   The organizer shall assume full responsibility for ensuring the
protection of all town property within the event site, including, but not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, trees, plants, shrubs, buildings and the like.
Any damage which may occur to town property will be the responsibility of
organizer if the same occurs within the event site during the term of the event
and as a result of the event. This section specifically excludes normal wear
and tear as determined by the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.23 DEPARTMENT REVIEW.
   All applications for revocable right-of-way use permits shall be reviewed
and recommendations made by the town’s Office of Emergency Management.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 115.24 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any special event permit issued under the terms of this subchapter may
be revoked by the Town Administrator or his or her designee, the Director of
Emergency Management or his or her designee, and/or the Police Chief or his or
her designee for grounds, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
      (2)   The organizer conducts the event for which the permit has been
issued in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace;
      (3)   The conduct of the event has caused, will cause or will have the
effect of an imminent threat to the public health, safety and/or general
welfare; and/or
      (4)   The organizer has failed to comply with all the terms and
conditions of the revocable right-of-way use permit.
   (B)   Upon revocation of the permit, the organizer shall immediately
terminate the conduct of the event, and dismantle and remove any improvements
and/or obstructions located in any public rights-of-way and the event site, and
return the public rights-of-way to the original condition before the event.
   (C)   Revocation for cause shall constitute grounds for denial of subsequent
permit requests.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 115.25 FEES.
   (A)   The standard fee for a special event permit shall be $25. This fee
shall be paid to the town and deposited in the account for the Office of
Emergency Management.
   (B)   A fee waiver may be issued by the Board of Trustees at its sole
discretion.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 115.26 TOWN PROCESS.
   (A)   Once a special event permit application is submitted to the Office of
Emergency Management, the Director of Emergency Management or his or her
designee shall complete an internal review process within 30 calendar days.
This internal review should include considerations for including the Police
Department, Fire Department, Public Works Authority or any other agency or
group in the pre-planning process.
   (B)   After completion of the internal review process, the Director of
Emergency Management or his or her designee shall develop, if necessary, a FEMA
ICS Form 201, Incident Action Plan, and submit the plan to the organizer and
the Board of Trustees prior to the approval or denial of the permit.
(Ord. 2021-09-01, passed 9-9-2021)
CHAPTER 116: TOBACCO
Section
Youth Access
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Unlawful to sell or furnish to persons under 21 years of age
   
116.03   Distribution of tobacco and vapor product samples
   
116.04   Public access to displayed tobacco, nicotine or vapor products
   
116.05   Enforcement; compliance checks
 
   
116.99   Penalty
YOUTH ACCESS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated
from plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified organic
matter, or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human consumption;
provided, however, this term shall not include products approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product distributed to
members of the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver license or other government-issued photo identification.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Non-combustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit
or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a
vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any vapor
cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that is
intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe or similar product or device. VAPOR PRODUCTS do not
include any products regulated by the United States Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, being 21
U.S.C. §§ 351 et seq.
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 116.02 UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR FURNISH TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product (see definition) to another
person who is under 21 years of age, or to purchase in any manner tobacco, a
tobacco products or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be
unlawful for an employee under 21 years of age to handle tobacco, tobacco
products or vapor products when required in performance of the employee’s
duties.
   (B)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco
products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than 21 years of age, If
an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco products
or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient who is not under 21 years of age, the failure to subsequently require
proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this division (B).
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco or tobacco product samples or vapor products samples
to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   No person shall distribute tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product
samples in or on any public street, sidewalk or park that is within 300 feet of
any playground, school or other facility when the facility is being used
primarily by persons under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, including loosies, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco product or vapor products without
assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or vapor products or
an employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this division (A)
shall not apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons
under 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees or costs
shall not exceed $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   Any conviction for a violation of this subchapter and any compliance
checks conducted by the Police Department pursuant to division (C) below shall
be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within 30 days of the conviction or compliance check. Such reports
shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission. Convictions
shall be reported by the Court Clerk or his or her designee and compliance
checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
   (C)   Persons under 21 years of age may be enlisted by the Police Department
to assist in enforcement of this subchapter pursuant to the rules of the ABLE
Commission.
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
116.02 of this chapter is an offense against the town; upon conviction of any
such offense, the violator shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Not more than $200 for the second offense within a two-year
period following the first offense;
         (c)   Not more than $300 for the third offense within a two-year
period following the first offense. In addition to any store’s license to sell
tobacco products or nicotine products or the store’s sales tax permit for a
store that is predominantly engaged m the sale of vapor products in which the
sale of other products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not
exceeding 30 days; and
         (d)   Not more than $300 for a fourth or subsequent offense within a
two-year period following the first offense. In addition to any other penalty,
the store’s license to sell tobacco products or the store’s sales tax permit
for a store that is predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in
which the sale of other products is merely incidental may be suspended for a
period not exceeding 60 days.
      (2)   (a)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to §
116.02 of this chapter. A person cited for violating §
116.02 of this chapter shall be deemed to have reasonably relied upon proof of
age, and such person shall not be found guilty of the violation if such person
proves that:
            1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
or vapor product presented a driver’s license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was 21 years of age
or older; or
            2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of
the driver’s license or other government-issued, photo identification presented
by such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction
scan device.
         (b)   Provided that, this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of §
116.02 of this chapter if the person failed to exercise reasonable diligence to
determine whether the physical description and picture appearing on the
driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification was that of
the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense described in
this division (B)(2) does not affect the availability of any other defense
under any other provision of law.
   (C)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of §
116.03 of this chapter, the total of any fines, fees or costs shall not exceed
the following:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for the second offense; and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for the third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2022-3-1, passed 3-10-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Attempts to commit offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this general offenses title is punishable
by fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PERSONS
Section
Property Offenses
   
131.01   Petit larceny
   
131.02   Receiving stolen property
   
131.03   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
131.04   Buildings and other property; destroying or injuring
   
131.05   Signs; placing on property of another
   
131.06   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
131.07   Public utilities; tampering with or damaging
   
131.08   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
131.09   Illegal entrance
   
131.10   Advertising; throwing on street
   
131.11   Injurious substances; throwing
   
131.12   Plants, streets and trees; injury to
   
131.13   Trespass prohibited
   
131.14   Parking on property of another
   
131.15   Fire hydrants; interference
   
131.16   Gas pump piracy
Offenses Against Persons
   
131.30   Assault and battery
PROPERTY OFFENSES
§ 131.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value not
exceeding $100 accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive
another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the
“person” of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny may be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Petit larceny defined, see 21 O.S. §§ 1704, 1706
§ 131.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to buy, receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or to conceal, withhold or aid in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   (B)   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, buys, receives,
conceals, withholds or aids in concealing or withholding any property which has
been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1713
§ 131.03 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle
belonging to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY; DESTROYING OR INJURING.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 SIGNS; PLACING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another (whether public or private), except
in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 PUBLIC UTILITIES; TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe,
wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying
gas, water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly
or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other
way so as to evade payment therefor.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other part of any public utility,
including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 ADVERTISING; THROWING ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11 INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES; THROWING.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.12 PLANTS, STREETS AND TREES; INJURY TO.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or willfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground, any
person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-212)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree
or sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
         (b)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
         (c)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the town;
         (d)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
         (e)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the town inspector so to do.
      (2)   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done
under the supervision of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-213)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.13 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. The property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS.
         (a)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
         (b)   TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person
in lawful possession of the premises.
         (c)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on
private property at any time other than during posted hours of business
operation after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police
officer.
         (d)   The provisions of division (c) shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner of by a person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the
provisions of this sentence apply unless hours of business operations are
posted upon such premises.
         (e)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of opening for business operation on
the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under
the terms of this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
(Prior Code, § 10-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.14 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.15 FIRE HYDRANTS; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department, to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   (B)   If is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any
other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10-216) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16 GAS PUMP PIRACY.
   Any person who pumps gasoline into the gasoline tank of any vehicle and/or
any container, and who then leaves the premises without making payment for the
gasoline may be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2000-7-1, passed 7-6-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
§ 131.30 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   An ASSAULT is any intentional, willful or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A BATTERY is any intentional, willful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   (C)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
132.03   Literature or language ridiculing religion
   
132.04   Fireworks
   
132.05   Explosives; storing or keeping
   
132.06   Reckless conduct
   
132.07   Firearms; discharging; exceptions
   
132.08   Loud noise or music; amplified sound
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION.
   It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute or circulate any
literature or language within the corporate limits of the town that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in its common acceptance
is calculated or where the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to discharge, ignite or
in any manner aid, assist or abet in the discharging or igniting of any
fireworks or firecrackers of any size, type of description, skyrockets,
pistols, torpedoes, roman candles, balloons, bottle rockets or other
firecrackers or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display within
the corporate limits of the town is hereby prohibited, except during the times,
hours and dates set forth by resolution.
   (B)   Each year these specifics are to be designated by the town’s Board of
Trustees. The resolution shall be done annually at the Board’s first meeting in
June; and, provided further that, no discharge of fireworks will be permitted
unless appropriate firefighting equipment and manpower is present during the
designated period.
   (C)   The sale fireworks or firecrackers of any size, type of description,
skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes, Roman candles, balloons, bottle rockets or
other firecrackers or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display,
shall be allowed within town limits in accordance with state statues and by the
regulations established by the office of the State Fire Marshal-Fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) (Ord. 2022-4-2, passed 4-14-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Bottle rockets prohibited by state law, see 68 O.S. § 1624
   State fireworks licenses required, see 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
§ 132.05 EXPLOSIVES; STORING OR KEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five pounds where the same is securely kept.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of
creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety
of another person.
(Prior Code, § 10-307) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 FIREARMS; DISCHARGING; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the town, except
when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
   (B)   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the town by operating, having operated or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle or any other device,
with or without a loud speaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise
or words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from
playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
(Prior Code, § 10-309) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Intoxication and drinking
   
133.02   Narcotics and dangerous drugs
   
133.03   Prostitution and lewd conduct
   
133.04   Disorderly houses
   
133.05   Nudity, improper dress or indecent exposure
   
133.06   Obscenity; definitions; conduct
   
133.07   Vagrancy
   
133.08   Curfew for children
   
133.09   Sleeping in public
   
133.10   Begging
   
133.11   Gambling
   
133.12   Harmful deception
   
133.13   False or bogus checks
   
133.14   Swindling
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 INTOXICATION AND DRINKING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley or other public place in the town in a state of intoxication. It
is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor or
beverage, as defined by 37 O.S. § 163.1, upon or in any street, alley or other
public place within the town. It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another
any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the town except as legally
prescribed by a physician.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (A), a STATE OF INTOXICATION
means the condition in which a person is under the influence of any
intoxicating, non-intoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any
narcotic or drug, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full
physical or mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself, herself
or others.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
   (B)   Possession; transportation of intoxicating beverages.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in
possession of any intoxicating alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any
public street, road or highway or in any public place within the town limits.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age
of 21 years to permit such person to be in possession of an intoxicating
alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating beverage,
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the opened
container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or
compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or
panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (B), intoxicating beverage shall
be as defined by 37 O.S.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
   (C)   Intoxicating liquors. It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind,
except as permitted by law;
      (2)   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor or beverage, except as permitted by law, or to transport or
in any manner convey from place to place in the town any intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor or beverage, except as permitted by law;
      (3)   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor
is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      (4)   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana, opium, narcotic or
controlled dangerous drug;
      (2)   To use, have or possess marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled
dangerous drug upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public
place within the town;
      (3)   To use marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled dangerous drug in
any place within the town, except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed
to practice in the state;
      (4)   To loiter about a place where marijuana, opium, narcotic or
controlled dangerous drug is sold or furnished illegally; or
      (5)   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, opium,
narcotic or controlled dangerous drug.
   (B)   The term CONTROLLED DANGEROUS DRUG shall have the meaning prescribed
by 63 O.S. § 2-101 for “controlled dangerous substance”.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 PROSTITUTION AND LEWD CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution or lewdness;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution or act of lewdness;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution or obscenity;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution or lewdness;
      (6)   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of lewdness or
prostitution; or
      (7)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution or be a party to an act of lewdness in the limits of town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR OBSCENITY. The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
obscenity or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      LEWDNESS. The performance of an act of sexual intercourse or other sexual
activity with another person, except a spouse, of either sex, for the purpose
of obtaining an orgasm, or to offer to solicit or suggest to another person
such activity.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 10-405) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   (A)   Generally. A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which
the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by
reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sub-lease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
   (C)   Residents and visitors to disorderly house. No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this division (C), the town shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
division (C) shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of
their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 NUDITY, IMPROPER DRESS OR INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 OBSCENITY; DEFINITIONS; CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest (i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity
or excretion);
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bar tending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
   (B)   Prohibited obscene conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
         (b)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         (c)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         (d)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            4.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      (2)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of
any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher or cashier; provided, such person
has no financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person
is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided that, this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 10-412) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 CURFEW FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Legislative findings. The Board of the town hereby makes the following
findings.
      (1)   The town has a compelling governmental interest in restricting
certain late-night activities of juveniles in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of juveniles and other persons and their property.
      (2)   The occurrences of juvenile crime have continued to substantially
increase over the past several years.
      (3)   The intent of this section is to narrowly tailor the restriction of
late-night activities of juveniles to the extent juvenile crime and violence is
reduced and juveniles as well as other citizens and their property are
protected from harm.
      (4)   Juveniles are particularly vulnerable to the influence of persons
who do not have the best interest of the juvenile in mind, due to the inability
of juveniles to make important or critical decisions in an informed and mature
manner and to avoid choices that could be detrimental to their health, safety
or welfare.
      (5)   The town and many public spirited citizens have expended a great
deal of time and energy in trying to deter criminal conduct, assist parents and
protect juveniles.
      (6)   A concern has arisen in the community that certain activities by
juveniles, and adults during the night hours endanger the health, safety and
welfare of other persons and their property.
      (7)   The town does not desire to interfere with the parent-child,
parent-juvenile relationship or the parental right to raise their children or
juveniles.
      (8)   While the town recognizes parents and/or responsible adults need
wide latitude in supervising their children, the town desires to protect
juveniles from nocturnal dangers and encourage parental responsibility.
      (9)   The town desires to assist the state in the effective communication
and documentation of juvenile offenses, the prevention of juvenile crime, the
prevention of child and juvenile abduction and the adoption of programs to
assist in the welfare, development and counseling of juveniles.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The public purpose of this section is to protect
juveniles from nocturnal dangers, enhance parental supervision and
responsibility for juveniles and protect the public at large.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a juvenile; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed
by a court.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 18 years of age.
      KNOWINGLY PERMIT. The parent, other responsible adult and/or operator, as
defined herein, is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the curfew
hours or that said person by exercise of reasonable care would have known that
the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent
of another person.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and retail establishments.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      RESPONSIBLE ADULT. Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent
and/or temporary care and/or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Any 1egal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
         (b)   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
         (c)   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by
order of a court;
         (d)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the request of or on behalf of a parent, guardian,
loco parentis or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a
court; and
         (e)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the requests of or on behalf of another parent.
   (D)   Offenses.
      (1)   A juvenile commits an offense if he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate town limits
during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent and/or other responsible adult of a juvenile commits an
offense if:
         (a)   He or she knowingly permits or allows, the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate
town limits of the town during curfew hours; and
         (b)   The parent and/or other responsible adult of a juvenile has
twice previously acted within any consecutive six-month period so as to
knowingly permit or allow said juvenile to the owner, operator or any employee
of an establishment commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits or allows
a juvenile to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours.
   (E)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (D) above that the
juvenile was at the time in question:
         (a)   Accompanied by the juvenile’s parent or responsible adult;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the juvenile’s parent or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile’s residence or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the juveniles presence;
         (g)   Attending, going to or returning home, without any detour or
stop, from an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults or an event sponsored by the town, a civic organization or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly or other rights protected by the United States or the
Oklahoma Constitution; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (D) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place.
      (2)   The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this
section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and
that based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in division (E)
above is present.
      (3)   Absent an interlocal agreement with the district court for the
municipal court to exercise jurisdiction over juveniles under 18 years of age
under division (D) above, pursuant to 10A O.S. § 2-2-102, the Municipal Court
must refer all alleged juvenile violations to the Juvenile Bureau of the
District Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-413) (Ord. 97-5-1, passed 5-1-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m., to sleep on any street, in any other public place or on any property
of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier.
(Prior Code, § 10-414) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency, except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 10-415) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 GAMBLING.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         (a)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         (b)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         (c)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         (d)   To knowingly permit his, her or its premises, houses, lot or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value.
(Prior Code, § 10-416)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-417)
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit gambling, see 11 O.S. § 22-108
§ 133.12 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 10-418) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.13 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property
or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false or bogus
check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious
coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for
money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing,
issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the
knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with, such bank or other
depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within 180 days after same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 10-419) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.14 SWINDLING.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 10-420) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates a provision of §
133.08 of this chapter is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of
a day during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. The
court may require community service work prescribed by the court in lieu of a
fine if the product of multiplying the number of minimum hours of community
service work by the prevailing wage does not result in a number which exceeds
the maximum fine authorized by law.
      (2)   The Municipal Court’s jurisdiction over a juvenile who violates §
133.08(D) of this chapter shall be expressly subject to 10A O.S. §§ 2-2-101 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-413) (Ord. 97-5-1, passed 5-1-1997)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting an officer
   
134.02   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
134.03   Assault and battery upon police, other officer
   
134.04   Rescuing prisoners
   
134.05   Escape of prisoners
   
134.06   Impersonating officer or employee
   
134.07   False alarms
   
134.08   False representation to officer
   
134.09   Barricades; removal
   
134.10   Resisting public officials
   
134.11   Failure to appear
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with the Police Chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official
duties within the limits of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   The words OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make his
or her identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 ASSAULT AND BATTERY UPON POLICE, OTHER OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the
town jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody, either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-605) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 IMPERSONATING OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the town, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-606) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-608) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.09 BARRICADES; REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 10-609) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.10 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-610) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.11 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Any person who is charged with a violation of this code and who, having been
arraigned and released on recognizance, or having made a promise to appear, and
violates such recognizance, or fails to answer the summons, or fails to honor a
promise to appear and does not voluntarily appear before the Court on the
appointed date and time, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
the citation was originally issued, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 12-2-1986) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
134.11 of this chapter by failing to appear in the Municipal Court shall be
deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 12-2-1986)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   STRUCTURES; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
155.   PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
150.03   Building Official
   
150.04   Fire limits defined
   
150.05   Building permit required; fee; conditions
Plumbing Code
   
150.20   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.21   Additions, insertions and changes to Plumbing Code
   
150.22   Plumbers; registration, permits and fees
   
150.23   Plumbing permits and inspections
   
150.24   Plumbing Inspector; office created; duties
Electrical Code
   
150.35   “Electrical equipment” defined
   
150.36   National Electrical Code adopted
   
150.37   Underwriters Laboratories
   
150.38   Board of Trustees’ special rulings
   
150.39   Pilot light required for iron in mercantile occupancies
   
150.40   Branch circuits
   
150.41   Basement installations
   
150.42   Permit required for electrical installations; issuance
   
150.43   Inspection fee
   
150.44   Electrician’s certificate required; bond
Other Codes Adopted
   
150.55   Gas Piping Code pamphlet adopted
   
150.56   Minimum Residential Housing Quality Code adopted
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The BOCA Basic Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as published by
the Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the town for the control of buildings and
structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the BOCA Basic Building Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes if any
prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
Statutory reference:
   Building codes, adoption by cities, see 11 O.S. § 14-107 and 74 O.S. § 324.8
§ 150.02 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the BOCA Basic Building Code are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 100.1: insert “Town of Wellston”;
   (B)   Section 114.3.1: insert “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
§
10.99 of the town code, or as may be set or amended by ordinance or
resolution”;
   (C)   Section 117.4: insert “Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as
provided in §
10.99 of the town code of ordinances”;
   (D)   Section 118.2: insert “fine as provided in §
10.99 of the town code of ordinances”;
   (E)   Section 123.3: insert “as set by the Town Board of Trustees”;
   (F)   Section 501.2: insert “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided
in §
150.04 of the town code of ordinances”;
   (G)   Section 1807.2.1 and 1807.22: insert “a number of feet to be
determined by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution” in both
locations; and
   (H)   Section 1906.1: insert “Amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees
by motion or resolution”.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 150.03 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official of the town shall be appointed by the town’s Board of
Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the “Building
Official” by the town’s Building Code; provided that, his or her powers and
duties may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his or
her supervision and control. The term BUILDING INSPECTOR, whenever used in the
ordinances of the town, means the Building Official. The terms ELECTRICAL
INSPECTOR, PLUMBING INSPECTOR and GAS INSPECTOR, wherever used in the
ordinances of the town, also each refer to and mean the Building Official,
unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing inspector and/or gas inspector
is appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 150.04 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The fire limits are that part of the town bounded as provided in §
92.07 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 150.05 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered
or moved without a building permit issued by the Town Clerk as follows:
         (a)   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the
outside appearance;
         (b)   Whenever changes will amount to more than $1,000 in cost; or
         (c)   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
town to a location within the town or from one location in the town to another
location within the town.
      (2)   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the Town Clerk. The applicant shall submit with the application
such reasonable information as the Clerk may require to enable him or her to
determine whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the
requirements of the ordinances of the town.
      (3)   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Clerk shall issue the permit upon the payment by the
applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion or resolution of
the town’s Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept
in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (4)   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
   (B)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk only after
the Building Official has determined that the proposed building site is
reasonably safe from flooding; or, if a flood hazard exists, any proposed new
construction or substantial improvement, must:
         (a)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         (b)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (c)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (2)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, association of any other
legal entity shall construct or cause to be constructed any structure or
substantial improvement to any structure, residential, industrial, commercial
or otherwise, without first obtaining a permit to construct same from the town.
      (3)   Proposed subdivisions and land use areas shall be reviewed to
assure that:
         (a)   All proposal for construction provide for methods to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewerage, gas,
electrical service and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided for so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      (4)   All new or replacement water supply systems or sanitary sewerage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into the flood water.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.20 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, at least three copies of which are on file in the office
of the Town Clerk, being marked and designated as “The BOCA Basic Plumbing
Code”, the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or amendments thereto, as
published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town for the control of
buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the BOCA Basic Plumbing Code are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
code, with additions, insertions and changes, if any, prescribed in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Town powers to supervise plumbing, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 150.21 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section P-100.1 (page 5, second line): insert “the Town of Wellston”;
   (B)   Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line): insert “March 1, 1983”;
   (C)   Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line): insert “as provided in §
150.23 of the town’s code of ordinances”;
   (D)   Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines): insert
“offense and punished as provided in §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances”;
   (E)   Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line): insert “fine as provided in §
10.99 of ordinances”;
   (F)   Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line): insert “a distance in feet as
determined by the Town Board of Trustees”; and
   (G)   Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines): insert “a depth in
feet as determined by the Town Board of Trustees.”
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 150.22 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The phrases and words “journeyman plumber”, “plumber’s apprentice”,
“plumbing contractor”, and “plumbing”, when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of the town, shall have the meanings
respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq., the state’s
plumbing license law unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade
or occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber),
or of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber’s apprentice, in the town unless he
or she is registered with the Plumbing Inspector and has a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the state’s Commissioner of
Health as provided by the state’s plumbing license law may register as such
with the Plumbing Inspector; and only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as plumber’s apprentices issued by the state’s
Commissioner of Health as provided by the law, may register as such with the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (D)   Upon application to the Plumbing Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector
shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of registration;
provided that, an applicant for registration as a plumbing contractor shall
also furnish a bond as prescribed below. Such city certificates shall not be
valid after the termination or expiration of the state licenses or
certificates. Registration certificates of plumbing contractors and journeyman
plumbers issued as provided herein shall expire on June 30 each year. The town
certificates of plumber’s apprentices shall expire when their state
certificates expire which is five years after date of issue.
   (E)   An applicant for a plumbing contractor’s certificate of registration,
after complying with the laws of the state and with the established town code,
and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the
Town Clerk. The registration shall expire at the end of the fiscal year, and
the annual renewal fee, but may be renewed from year to year. The initial
registration fee shall be as set by the Town Board. Plumbing contractors
desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same evidence of
compliance with state licensing laws and the same bond is required as set forth
by town code.
   (F)   A qualified person may register as a plumbing contractor, a journeyman
plumber or a plumber’s apprentice, in the same manner as in the original
instance, and upon the same conditions.
   (G)   All plumbing contractors registrations not renewed within 90 days
after the date of expiration thereof shall be cancelled, and a new application
for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   (H)   There is no fee for registration as a journeyman plumber or a
plumber’s apprentice, but annual registration is required and evidence of
bonding will be presented to Clerk upon registration.
   (I)   The Town Board, upon at least ten days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the town registration of any
plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of the
ordinances or regulations of the town relating to the installation of plumbing
or for any other cause specified in the state plumbing license law.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   State plumbing licenses, requirements, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 150.23 PLUMBING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
§ 150.24 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES.
   The Office of Inspector of Plumbing is hereby created and shall be filled
and the duties of the office performed by some person appointed by the town’s
Board of Trustees. Such Inspector shall make inspection and testing of all
plumbing and sewer connections done within the town and shall have the right to
deputize any person equally qualified to make the actual inspections and
report. He or she may and shall carry out the performance of this subchapter.
The testing of plumbing shall be done by filling all drains with water to the
roof and such other tests as the Inspector shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
Statutory reference:
   Cities and towns to create office of Plumbing Inspector, see 59 O.S. § 1016
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.35 “ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT” DEFINED.
   The term ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, used in this subchapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus and any electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to be
installed within or on any building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
Statutory reference:
   State electrical requirements, licensing by state, see 59 O.S. §§ 1680 to
1696
§ 150.36 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific standards are
prescribed by this subchapter or by the statutes of the state or by any orders,
rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity with the
regulations set forth in the current issue of the National Electrical Code as
approved by the American Insurance Association, shall be prima facie evidence
of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 150.37 UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES.
   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter, the statutes of the state and the provisions of
this subchapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this subchapter, by a
statute of the state or any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority
thereof, a specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for
installation and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 150.38 BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the town, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 150.39 PILOT LIGHT REQUIRED FOR IRON IN MERCANTILE OCCUPANCIES.
   In all mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must be
installed with approved pilot light. If pilot light is in an enclosure such as
an alteration room, an additional light must be installed in a visible position
outside the enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 150.40 BRANCH CIRCUITS.
   In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits shall be
confined to 1,000 watts, and not more than eight outlets per circuit will be
allowed in the fire limits. Branch circuit conductors shall be smaller than No.
12 Type C lamp cord will not be permitted in the kitchen or restaurants or like
places where grease accumulates, nor in part of a building where live poultry
is confined.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
§ 150.41 BASEMENT INSTALLATIONS.
   A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be installed in basements in
any area subject to floods. Ground connections shall not be made in toilets,
adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors or in any location where the grounding
conductor and fitting is likely to become corroded.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 150.42 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of the town or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first securing a permit from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the Town Clerk
and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other data as
may be reasonably required.
   (C)   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion or
resolution passed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43 INSPECTION FEE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)
§ 150.44 ELECTRICIAN’S CERTIFICATE REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or appliance
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
Electrical Inspector. The initial fee for an electrical contractor’s
registration certificate, and any renewal, to be paid to the Town Clerk, shall
be as set by the Town Board. A registration certificate must be renewed within
90 days following expiration of the certificate. After the expiration, an
application for a new certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid
again. Except in case of renewal, the applicant must have passed an examination
given by the Electrical Inspector and demonstrated the qualifications of the
applicant for the certificate applied for. All such certificates shall expire
June 30. This certificate is not transferrable to any other individual or
company.
   (B)   Every person receiving a certificate as a electrical contractor or
appliance electrician shall file with the Town Clerk a bond in the sum of
$5,000, executed with a surety company authorized to do business in the state.
The bond shall be conditioned that the principal will install all electrical
wiring, fixtures, appliances and equipment in accordance with the law and the
ordinances and other regulations of the town relating to electrical
installations and in a workmanlike manner; that the principal shall, without
further cost to the person for whom the work was done, remedy any defective or
faulty work caused by poor workmanship or inferior or non-standard material;
and that the town may be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all
costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his or her work as
an electrical contractor or appliance electrician, as the case may be.
   (C)   The bond must be approved by the Building Inspector. No certificate
shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been filed and
approved. Any such certificate issued shall be valid only while the bond is in
effect.
   (D)   For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over
12 volts, no certificate or bond will be required. The installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   After adequate opportunity for a hearing and for just cause, the Town
Board may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor an appliance
electrician or a journeyman electrician.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
150.99
OTHER CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.55 GAS PIPING CODE PAMPHLET ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pamphlet No. 54, published by the National Fire Protection
Association, entitled National Fuel Gas Code, the latest edition thereof,
hereby adopted and incorporated in this code by reference. The pamphlet shall
be in full force and effect in the town and shall govern the installation of
gas piping and gas appliances in the town.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall be deemed a
violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
§ 150.56 MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL HOUSING QUALITY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town’s minimum residential housing quality shall be as contained
in Ord. 81-4 of the town, adopted 11-24-1981, which is adopted and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   The Minimum Residential Housing Code shall have full force and effect
in the town as if included at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by this chapter, without having a valid license,
permit, certificate or certificate of registration as required, or who shall
fail to do anything required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or of any
code adopted by this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or
order made by any of the officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-901)
      (2)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere
with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for
a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-902)
   (B)   A person who violates a provision of §§
150.01 through
150.05 of this chapter or fails to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters, repairs or removes, or
has erected, constructed, altered, repaired or removed a building or structure
in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder
or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined any sum as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, including costs. Each day upon which a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
   (C)   Any violation of the code adopted in §
150.56 of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
CHAPTER 151: STRUCTURES; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Liquified petroleum gas
Water Wells
   
151.15   Drilling prohibited
   
151.16   Permit application
   
151.17   Action on application
   
151.18   Applicable regulations
Vacant Structures and Land
   
151.30   Definitions
   
151.31   Maintenance
   
151.32   Condemnation
   
151.33   Notices and orders
Swimming Pools
   
151.45   Above-ground pools height above ground
   
151.46   Above-ground and in-ground pool water depths
   
151.47   Gates to fence enclosed area around pool
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless
such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be
required by state law. The Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases,
as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued by the National Fire Protection
Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the state’s Liquefied
Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within the town. Any
violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation of the
ordinances of the town and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
151.99
WATER WELLS
§ 151.15 DRILLING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drill, dig, or put down any water well upon
any premises served by the public water system within the town, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-1001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
151.15 of this chapter, any person within the limits of the town may make
application with the town’s Public Works Authority for a permit to drill a
water well; provided that, at the time the application is made, the premises
upon which the well is to be drilled is not served by the public water system
of the town.
   (B)   Any person making such application to drill, dig or otherwise put down
a water well must furnish written evidence to the town’s Public Works Authority
that the applicant’s premises are not served by the public water system at the
time the application is made. In addition, the applicant, prior to commencing
actual drilling, shall include in his or her application the location of the
proposed well by street number, lot, block and addition. The application shall
furnish an exact legal description of the premises upon which the well is to be
drilled and also the name of the owner of the premises. The applicant must also
describe any off-premises use of the water to be obtained through the well.
Each application must be accompanied by a filing fee as set by the authority
board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1002)
§ 151.17 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   If, after reviewing the application, the town’s Public Works Authority
determines that the applicant’s premises are being served by the public water
system, the authority shall deny the application. The authority may deny the
application, despite the fact that the applicant’s premises are not served by
the public water system, if, in the opinion of the authority, the proposed well
would create a hazard to public health and safety or the application is
incomplete or is not accompanied by the filing fee. If the authority finds that
the applicant’s premises are not served by the public water system and the
proposed well will not be a hazard to public health and safety, it shall issue
a permit for the well.
(Prior Code, § 5-1003)
§ 151.18 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   No person shall connect any private water well to the public water system of
the town, so that the waters of either may commingle. In the event that any
private water well is connected to the public water supply, the town’s Public
Works Authority, acting through its agents, shall immediately disconnect the
premises from the public water system.
(Prior Code, § 5-1004) Penalty, see §
151.99
VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND
§ 151.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Neighborhood Enhancement or his or her designated
representatives.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining properly
under the control of the owner and/or occupant of such premises.
   OCCUPANT. Any person legally living or sleeping in a building or having
legal possession of a space within a building.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office and/or any person, firm or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the property, including an officer, guardian,
executor, administrator, mortgagee in possession, managing or leasing agent of
such person, firm or corporation.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, tract or parcel of land including the buildings and
structures thereon.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
(Ord. passed 4-15-1999)
§ 151.31 MAINTENANCE.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof shall be maintained in a clean,
safe, secure and sanitary condition so as to not cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safely.
(Ord. passed 4-15-1999) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   If the structure or part thereof is vacant and unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use and is not in danger of structural collapse, or is
vacant and unsecured, the Director may order the structure closed up, boarded
and secured so that it will not be an attractive nuisance to children.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the Director shall cause it to be closed through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
(Ord. passed 4-15-1999)
§ 151.33 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever the
Director determines that there has been a violation of this section or has
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, or whenever he or
she has condemned any structure or equipment or ordered the closing of any
vacant structure under the provisions of §
151.31 of this chapter, he or she shall give notice to the owner or the person
or persons responsible therefor in the manner prescribed below. If he or she
has condemned the property part thereof, he or she shall give notice to the
owner and to the occupants of his or her intent to placard and to vacate the
property or to order equipment out of service.
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued; and
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Service. Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such
owner if a copy thereof is delivered to him or her personally; or by leaving
the notice at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the
family of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents
thereof; or by obtaining a receipt of mailing from the postal service for the
mail addressed to the owner as listed at the address shown by the current
year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office, and by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such
notice.
(Ord. passed 4-15-1999)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 151.45 ABOVE-GROUND POOLS HEIGHT ABOVE GROUND.
   All-above ground pools setting at least three feet above ground level shall
be enclosed by a four-foot high wood fence, chain link fence, wrought iron or
ornamental steel fence with slats no more than four inches apart, or similar
fencing as approved by the Town Board or its designee. This fencing shall be
erected in addition to any existing railing around the pool.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 8-11-2016) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.46 ABOVE-GROUND AND IN-GROUND POOL WATER DEPTHS.
   All above-ground pools with more than three feet of water and in-ground
pools with a water depth of at least two feet into the ground shall be enclosed
by a six-foot-high wood fence, chain link fence, wrought iron or ornamental
steel fence with slats no more than four inches apart, or similar fencing as
approved by the Town Board or its designee. This finding shall be erected in
addition to any existing railing around the pod.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 8-11-2016)
§ 151.47 GATES TO FENCE ENCLOSED AREA AROUND POOL.
   All gates to the fenced enclosed area around the pool shall be self-closing
with a spring hinge or closing device to allow gates to close automatically.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 8-11-2016) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who shall
violate any of the provisions of §§
151.45 through
151.47 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an
offense against the town. Each day’s continuous violation shall constitute a
separate offense and may be punished as such.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 8-11-2016)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Mobile home standards
   
152.02   Mobile home court standards
   
152.03   Mobile home court permit
§ 152.01 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS.
   Mobile homes shall conform to all the regulations and provisions of the
housing code adopted by the town and to any rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, with the following exceptions or additions.
   (A)   Minimum lot areas for mobile homes shall conform to the following
standards:
 
Length of Mobile Home Unit Minimum Lot area
Up to 40 feet              1,600 sq. ft.
40 to 50 feet              1,900 sq. ft.
50 to 60 feet              2,400 sq. ft.
Over 60 feet               2,800 sq. ft.
 
   (B)   The maximum number of occupants of a mobile home shall be limited to
the number determined on the basis of the square feet of habitable floor area
exclusive of habitable floor area used for cooking purposes in accordance with
the following:
      (1)   One hundred and fifty square feet for one or two occupants;
      (2)   Two hundred and fifty for three occupants; and
      (3)   Eighty square feet additional for each occupant thereof.
   (C)   Minimum floor widths shall be in accordance with generally accepted
standards of the mobile home industry.
   (D)   Habitable space shall have a minimum ceiling height of seven feet over
50% of the floor area; and the floor area where the ceiling height is less than
five feet shall not be considered in computing habitable floor area.
   (E)   A mobile home shall have a safe and unobstructed primary exit and an
emergency exit located remote from the primary exit.
   (F)   A mobile home shall contain cooking equipment and refrigeration
equipment of an approved type for mobile home installation.
   (G)   Suitable containers shall be provided for the temporary storage of
garbage and refuse within the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
§ 152.02 MOBILE HOME COURT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Mobile home courts shall be designed and constructed to conform
to applicable zoning and building regulations and generally accepted standards
for mobile home courts, and shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Mobile home courts shall have adequate facilities for drainage
of surface and subsurface water. This shall include proper grading and
installation, where necessary, of gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets
or other satisfactory drainage systems.
         (b)   Walks, driveways and parking spaces shall be provided with a
sealed surface and arranged in a manner that provides safe and convenient
access under normal use and weather conditions.
         (c)   Wires installed above driveways and parking spaces shall have a
clearance of not less than 18 feet.
         (d)   Mobile home courts shall be properly maintained so as to assure
the desirable residential character of the property.
         (e)   No occupied travel or vacation trailer or other form of
temporary living units shall be permitted in a mobile home court.
      (2)   A mobile home court shall be provided with the following utilities
which shall have sufficient capacity to supply the requirements of the mobile
home court and the maximum number of mobile homes which will be located there:
water supply system; sewage disposal system; electrical system, which shall
meet the following conditions.
         (a)   The water supply system shall be designed to provide a
sufficient supply of potable water, under adequate pressure to outlets serving
mobile homes, community structures, drinking fountains, hose connections and
hydrants.
         (b)   A sewage disposal system shall provided each mobile home and
community structures containing plumbing fixtures with an approved, adequate
and safe method of sewage disposal.
            1.   No untreated sewage from such a plumbing system shall be
disposed of into any waters of the state.
            2.   Where a public sewage disposal system is not available an
adequate private sewage disposal system, approved by the Health Officer shall
be provided.
         (c)   The electrical system shall be designed to provide adequate
capacity to supply the connected load without exceeding the current carrying
capacity of the conductors.
      (3)   Community fuel supply and storage requirements are as follows.
         (a)   A gas piping system, if installed, shall be designed to provide
a supply of gas sufficient to meet the maximum demand without undue loss of
pressure at the connection to the mobile home furthest from the source of
supply.
         (b)   Liquefied petroleum gas storage containers having a capacity
exceeding 125 gallons shall be located not less than 25 feet from the nearest
mobile home, structure, building and lot line and shall be so located and
protected that it will not be subject to damage from moving vehicles.
         (c)   Fuel oil and other flammable materials shall be stored so as not
to be a fire hazard.
      (4)   A mobile home court shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
orderly condition, and shall meet the following property maintenance
conditions.
         (a)   The premises shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards.
         (b)   Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowths;
accumulations of plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to health shall
be eliminated.
         (c)   Grounds and structures shall be maintained free of insect,
vermin and rodent harborage and infestation.
         (d)   Exterior wood surfaces of structures that are not inherently
resistant to deterioration shall be periodically treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative.
         (e)   Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the
collection, storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse.
         (f)   Domestic animals and pets shall be kept in an appropriate manner
and shall not be permitted to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no freestanding mobile home or
travel trailer shall be permitted in the city urban area unless it is being
offered for sale or parked for storage. Those freestanding mobile homes which
are now non-conforming uses under the provisions of the city zoning ordinance
may continue as non-conforming uses; provided that, they shall not be stored in
front yards or on side yards abutting a street on corner lots or on streets.
      (2)   No freestanding travel trailer shall be permitted in the city urban
area, except in RV trailer parks or mobile home parks unless it is being
actively offered for sale or parked for storage; provided, however, that, no
travel trailer shall be stored in front yards or on side yards abutting a
street on corner lots or on streets; and, further provided that, no water,
plumbing or permanent electrical connections shall be permitted.
   (C)   (1)   A double wide and module home will be placed on a permanent
foundation with the tongue and wheel axles removed from the structure, making
the structure a permanent home.
      (2)   A double wide trailer that has the wheels and axles removed shall
be a modular home. This modular home must be placed on a permanent foundation
in order to be approved for a building permit.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1995; Ord. passed 6-5-1997; Ord. 97-501, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 152.03 MOBILE HOME COURT PERMIT.
   Every person operating a mobile home court, mobile home park or any such
parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or
more mobile homes, shall secure from the Health Officer a mobile home court
permit. Such permit shall specify that the mobile home court is in conformance
with all provisions of this chapter and any rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
153.01   Trees and shrubbery; trimming; injuring
   
153.02   Obstructing sidewalks, parkways and the like
   
153.03   Depositing trash on sidewalks, streets
   
153.04   Playing on sidewalks, in streets
   
153.05   Washing vehicles on streets
   
153.06   Water from filling stations and the like
   
153.07   Sidewalk, area to become a hazard unlawful
   
153.08   Interfering with, obstructing drainage
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY; TRIMMING; INJURING.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the town
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the
sidewalks and the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or
alley, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free
and convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys.
      (2)   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
hereinafter required of the owner.
      (3)   Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a
street or alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 14-101)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a
street or alley in the town; provided that, this shall not prohibit the lawful
and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 14-103)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the
town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and
leave same thereon, or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade.
(Prior Code, § 14-104)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct
the sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with
pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the
town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking
thereon,
(Prior Code, § 14-105)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 DEPOSITING TRASH ON SIDEWALKS, STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 14-106) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 PLAYING ON SIDEWALKS, IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main-
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the town, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-107) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 WASHING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   The washing of on automobile or other vehicle in any street of the
town is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14-108)
   (B)   No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the
town where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or
during the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-109)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-110) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 SIDEWALK, AREA TO BECOME A HAZARD UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 14-111) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 INTERFERING WITH, OBSTRUCTING DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 14-112) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14-113)
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in §
153.01 of this chapter, after receiving five days’ notice from the head of the
department in charge of streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against
the town. Every day that the said owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim said trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five days’
notice, shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-102)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Statement of purpose
   
154.02   Findings of facts
   
154.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
154.04   Definitions
   
154.05   Application; compliance; interpretation
   
154.06   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazards
   
154.07   Development permit required
   
154.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.09   Building Inspector; duties
   
154.10   Permit procedures; approval or denial
   
154.11   Variance procedures
   
154.12   General flood hazard prevention standards
   
154.13   Specific flood hazard prevention standards
   
154.14   Subdivision proposal standards
§ 154.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure the potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACTS.
   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare. These flood losses are created by the cumulative
effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights
and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable
to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-202)
§ 154.03 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of an interpretation by the town’s Board of
Trustees or its designated agency of any provision of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet. This
condition occurs where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and the
construction of streets) is completed before the original effective date of
this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads or the construction of streets).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, where the areas within the boundaries of
special flood hazards have been designated a Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Hazard Boundary-Floodway Map.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not include
recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the mobile
home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and the construction
of streets) is completed on or after the original effective date of this
chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, plots or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other
than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
on any part thereof of its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the
affixing of the mobile home to its permanent site. For mobile homes within
mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the
date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of
streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and
installation of utilities) is completed.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-204)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION; COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its
use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 12-205)
§ 154.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration on its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) for the town, and any
revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
§ 154.07 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-207)
§ 154.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-208)
§ 154.09 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Engineer is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Town Engineer shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by §
154.07 of this chapter;
      (3)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Water Resources Board
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished; and
      (7)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
154.06 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of §§
154.12 through
154.14 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-209)
§ 154.10 PERMIT PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the Town
Engineer, on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood-proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
154.13 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the town’s Building
Inspector shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 12-210)
§ 154.11 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall hear and render judgment on
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter, it shall hear and
render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Inspector in the
enforcement or administration of the chapter. Any person or persons aggrieved
by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may appeal such decision in the
courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; providing, the relevant factors in §
154.10(B) of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the
intent of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of §
154.01 of this chapter.
   (C)   Prerequisites for granting variances include the following:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation no more than two feet below the base flood elevation, and that the
cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (D)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (F)   The Building Inspector shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Insurance
Administration upon request.
(Prior Code, § 12-211)
§ 154.12 GENERAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (E)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (F)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 12-212)
§ 154.13 SPECIFIC FLOOD HAZARD AREAS STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
154.06,
154.09 and
154.12 of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Town
Engineer that the standard of this division (A), as proposed in §
154.10 of this chapter is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be flood-proofed
so that below the base flood level the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Town Engineer that the standards of this paragraph as
proposed in §
154.10 of this chapter are satisfied.
   (C)   Mobile homes. No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway, or if
applicable, a coastal high hazard area, except in an existing mobile home park
or existing mobile home subdivision. All mobile homes shall be anchored to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Specific requirements shall be:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties at each of the four corners of the mobile home,
with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations and mobile homes
less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties at each corner of the home with five additional ties per
side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring
four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
(Prior Code, § 12-213)
§ 154.14 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with §§
154.01 through
154.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions shall meet
development permit requirements of §§
154.07,
154.10 and
154.12 through
154.14 of this chapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or
five acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
154.06 and
154.09 of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-214)
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Zoning
   
155.001   Zoning districts established
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Board of Adjustment
Agricultural Districts
Part 1. General Agricultural District
   
155.010   General description
   
155.011   Uses permitted
   
155.012   Area and height regulations
   
155.013   Signs and billboards
Part 2. Suburban Agricultural District
   
155.020   General description
   
155.021   Uses permitted
   
155.022   Area and height regulations
   
155.023   Aerobic sewer system
   
155.024   Signs and billboards
Part 3. General Residential District
   
155.030   General description
   
155.031   Uses permitted
   
155.032   Minimum lot size
   
155.033   Maximum coverage
   
155.034   Yard requirements
   
155.035   Height limit
   
155.036   Off street parking
   
155.037   Signs
   
155.038   Structure size
Commercial Districts
Part 1. C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District
   
155.045   General description
   
155.046   Uses permitted
   
155.047   Minimum lot size
   
155.048   Area regulations
   
155.049   Height regulations
   
155.050   Off street parking
   
155.051   Signs and billboards
Part 2. C-2 General Commercial District
   
155.060   General description
   
155.061   Uses permitted
   
155.062   Minimum lot size
   
155.063   Open display uses permitted
   
155.064   Area regulations
   
155.065   Height regulations
   
155.066   Signs and billboards
Part 3. C-3 Intensive Commercial District
   
155.075   General description
   
155.076   Uses permitted
   
155.077   Minimum lot size
   
155.078   Area regulations
   
155.079   Height regulations
   
155.080   Signs and billboards
I General Industrial District
   
155.090   General description
   
155.091   Uses permitted
   
155.092   Minimum lot size
   
155.093   Maximum coverage
   
155.094   Yard requirements
   
155.095   Height limit
   
155.096   Off street parking and loading
   
155.097   Signs and billboards
General Provisions Applying to All Districts
   
155.105   Compliance with district regulations; exception
   
155.106   More restrictive district regulations prevail
   
155.107   Residential uses restricted to residential lots
   
155.108   Division of lots
   
155.109   Use of yards
   
155.110   Street access
   
155.111   Trailers and commercial vehicles
   
155.112   Sewer service
   
155.113   Group housing projects
   
155.114   Special use permits; review; communication services
Planning Commission
   
155.120   Membership created
   
155.121   Organization; meetings, officers and employees
   
155.122   Powers and duties
   
155.123   Having power of zoning commission
ZONING
§ 155.001 ONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this title and the promotion of public health, safety and
general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the Town of Wellston:
 
A-1 General agricultural district
A-2 Suburban agricultural district
R   General residential district
C-1 Neighborhood shopping district
C-2 General commercial district
C-3 Intensive commercial district
I   General industrial district
 
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are to be used and
interpreted as defined in this section. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future tense; words in the singular number include the plural
number and words in the plural number include the singular, except where the
natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory and not directory. For purposes of this title, certain terms used
herein are defined as follows.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure customarily incidental,
appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of a building or to the
principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce. The
operation of any such accessory use shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities, and the above uses shall not include the commercial
feeding of swine or other animals, stockyards or commercial feedlots for
cattle.
   ALLEY. A minor right of way dedicated to public use not more than 30 feet
wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint shop, or vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental replacement of parts and motor service
to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding 1½ tons' capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION. Any area used for retail sale
of gasoline or oil fuels or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair, or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH OR AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building or structure or chain
conveyor, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
   BLOCK. In describing the boundaries of a district, reference to the legal
description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the property
abutting on one side of the street between two intersecting  streets or between
an intersecting street and a railroad right of way or between an intersecting
street and a watercourse.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The board of adjustment of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE. Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relatives and excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
or property.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. See definition of ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this title.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or buildings in which the principal use of
the building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall
be deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Any sign announcing the activities of an educational,
religious, institutional or similar use.
   CEMETERY.  Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
   CHILDCARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which receives three or
more children under the age of 16 years for care apart from their natural
parents, legal guardians or custodians, and received for regular periods of
time for compensation. This definition shall not include public and private
schools organized, operated or approved under the laws of this state, custody
of children fixed by a court, children related by blood or marriage within the
third degree to the custodial person, or to churches or other religious or
public institutions caring for children within their institutional building
while their parents or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or
classes and other church activities.
   CITY COUNCIL. The official governing body of the city.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official plan of the city, as adopted by the city
council.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. Also a nursing home, a rest home, a home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill, or incurable persons, in which two or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
   CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A private adult female prison facility.
   COVERAGE. The lots are covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of
one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, mobile
home, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
   DWELLING, MODULAR. A living unit manufactured off site and transported on an
independent carrier unit, to a permanent site which has been constructed in
accordance with applicable engineering bulletins, standards or regulations
issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and which to
the extent applicable, complies with the building codes of the town of
Wellston.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units and designed for or used by three or more families; also
includes the word "apartments".
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit and
designed for, or used exclusively by, one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units and designed
for, or used exclusively by, two families; also includes the word "duplex".
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms arranged, intended or designed as a
habitable unit, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more
than one family living independently of any other family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage, including adopted
children, or a group of not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) not all
related by blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
or lodging house, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for group use. A "family"
shall be deemed to include domestic servants employed by said family.
   FLOOD (100-YEAR FREQUENCY). A flood having an average frequency of
occurrence once in 100 years although the flood may occur in any year, based on
statistical analyses of stream flow records available for the watershed and
analyses of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the general region of the
watershed, as determined by the city engineer, or as determined by the U.S.
Corps of Engineers and confirmed by the city engineer or as determined by a
registered professional engineer and certified by the city engineer.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land area adjoining a floodwaywhich is not reasonably
required to carry and discharge the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood
but which would be inundated by the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood
based on full urbanization of the watershed.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a watercourse or drainageway and those portions of
the adjoining lands which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerlines of walls separating two buildings.
   FRONTAGE. The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a
street.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of
four (4) or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. The structure or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement of any structure on any parcel of land
measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost point
of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one non-illuminated
nameplate, not more than two square feet in area, attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used, except such as is
customarily used in purely domestic or household purposes. Such occupation
shall not increase vehicular traffic on the street on which the dwelling is
located by more than four individual visits per day, and shall not increase
parking demands on the street on which the dwelling is located. A tea room,
restaurant, rest home, clinic, barbershop, beauty parlor, doctor's or dentist's
office, childcare center, tourist home or cabinet shop, metal shop, lawn mower
repair, or auto repair garage shall not be deemed a home occupation.
   HOSPITAL. See definition of MEDICAL FACILITIES.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer parks, or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage, or building where persons are housed under restraint.
   INDUSTRY. Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance, or any commodity for commercial use.
   INSTITUTIONAL USES. Those uses organized, established, used or intended to
be used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social, or philanthropic activity and normally operated on a
nonprofit basis.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including
all wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which three or more dogs over four
months of age are kept.
   LIVABILITY SPACE. The open space of a lot which is not allocated to, or used
for, off street parking or loading areas or for paved access to the off street
parking or loading area.
   LOADING SPACE. A space on the same lot as the principal use of at least ten
feet in width and 30 feet in length and having a vertical clearance of at least
14 feet, designated for the temporary parking of commercial vehicles while
loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A piece or parcel ofland occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open space as required by this title, and having access on a public street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides
is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where
the lot abuts more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and most
nearly parallel to, the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, WEDGE SHAPED. A lot situated so that the front is either wider or
narrower than the rear of the lot.
   LOTS OF RECORD. A separate and distinct parcel designated on a legally
recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of
Pottawatomie County, State of Oklahoma.
   MEAN LOT ELEVATION. The average elevation of a lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES.
      DENTAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE. The same as "dental or medical clinic",
including the various dental and medical specialties.
      DENTAL OR MEDICAL CLINIC. A building used for the examination and
treatment of the physically ill; provided, that no facilities are provided for
patients remaining overnight, except under emergency conditions, except as
provided for in this title.
      HOSPITAL. An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured,
and including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments,
training facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facilities.
      NURSING HOME, REST OR CONVALESCENT HOME. See definition of CONVALESCENT
HOME.
      PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services, including related facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than nine hundred (900) square
feet, designed to be used as a year round residential dwelling, and built prior
to the enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of
1974, which became effective for all mobile home construction on June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive
use of the occupants of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes to be occupied as
residences.
   MODULAR HOME. See definition of DWELLING, MODULAR.
   MOTEL. An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to be
used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
   OPEN SPACE. Area included in any side, rear, or front yard or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
   PARCEL.  A "lot" as defined in this section.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area of not less than two hundred
(200) square feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of
driveways or access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Wellston planning commission, as established by the
statutes, and provided for in §
155.120 of this code. The Wellston planning commission shall also be the zoning
commission for the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See definition of BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE.
   SALE OR AUCTION FACILITY. A building or place for holding public or contract
auctions.
   SIGN. Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as is used to designate an individual, a
firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a
commodity or product, which are visible from any public street or right of way
and designed to attract attention. "For sale" and "for rent" shall be deemed
signs within the meaning of this definition, but the term "sign" shall not
include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or other
political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious, or like campaign, drive, movement, or event used for a public
purpose in the public interest.
   SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. The net geometric area of the surface of the
sign upon, against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated,
including the outward extremities of all letters, figures, characters and
delineations; provided, that only one face of a double faced sign shall be
included in the computation of display surface area.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent, or lease.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public right of way more than 30 feet in width which provides the
primary public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for
vehicular circulation.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. Any street designated on the comprehensive plan as an
arterial, primary arterial, secondary arterial, major street, etc.
   STREET, MINOR. Any street not designated on the comprehensive plan as an
arterial.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural members of a building,
such as walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground (not including sidewalks, driveways and similar improvement
areas).
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the comprehensive plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles, and standards; also includes use
of the words "major street plan" and "trafficways plan".
   TRAILER. A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or
designed to carry or transport material or animals.
   YARD. A required space on a lot unobstructed, except as expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line, abutting on a street, into which a building may not
protrude.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting the
side lot line, into which no building may protrude.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.003 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created within the town a Board of Adjustment
with the powers and duties as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of five members, members
may reside outside of town limits, each appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by
the Town Board of Trustees for a term of three years; provided, however, that,
for the first appointment under the provisions of this section, one member
shall be appointed for a term of one year; two members shall be appointed for a
term of two years; and two members shall be appointed for a term of three
years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three years.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson from its
membership to serve for a term of two years.
   (C)   Procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance
with the provisions of this section. Meeting of the Board of Adjustment shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of
Adjustment shall determine. The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the
acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filled in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be a public
record. The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of
any administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance, or to effect
any variation in such ordinance.
   (D)   Appeals. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected
by any decision of the Zoning Commission, the Neighborhood Service Division or
its designees. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days from the date of the
decision by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the
Town Clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a
filing fee of $250 at the office of the Clerk at the time the notice is filed.
The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board
of Adjustment the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the office from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him
or her that be reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay, in his or her
opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than be a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application
and notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on the cause shown.
   (E)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers as
provided by law:
      (1)   If it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official in the
interpretation or enforcement of this section;
      (2)   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the original adoption of the
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition or a specific parcel of
property, which condition is not generally prevalent in the area, the strict
application of this section would resultin peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such
property, the Board is hereby empowered to authorize upon an appeal relating to
such property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, but may establish such requirements relative to such
property as would carry out the purpose and intent of this section;
      (3)   Upon appeal, the Board is hereby empowered to permit the following
exception:
         (a)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of
a district divides a lot in a single ownership as shown of record;
         (b)   To interpret the provisions of the ordinance where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
map; and
         (c)   To review the uses listed within §
155.114 of this code of ordinances. These are so classified because they more
intensely dominate the area in which they are located than do other uses
permitted in the district; however, the nature of such uses may make it
desirable that they be permitted to locate therein. The following procedure is
established to relate properly the uses permitted in review with the other land
uses located in the district. These uses shall be reviewed and authorized or
rejected under the following procedure.
            1.   An application shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment for
review. Said application shall show the location and intended use of the site,
the names of all the property owners and existing land use within 300 feet, and
any other material pertinent to the request which the Board of Adjustment may
require.
            2.   On the following minor exceptions, the application need only
contain the names of adjacent property owners, along with any other material
pertinent to the request which the Board of Adjustment may require:
               a.   Location of home beauty parlor;
               b.   Home day care facility; and
               c.   Location of mobile home on two and one-half acres or more.
            3.   The Board of Adjustment shall hold one or more public
hearings.
            4.   The Board of Adjustment, within 45 days of the date of
application, shall study the effect of such proposed building or use upon the
character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utilities and other
matters pertaining to the general welfare, and authorize or deny the issuance
of a permit for the use of land or buildings as requested.
      (4)   No new application for a variance or exception for review by the
Board of Adjustment in the form of the previous application which was denied
shall be made within 12 months subsequent to the effective date of such denial,
unless it can be shown that the conditions under which such denial were made
have substantially changed as determined by the Zoning Commission, Neighborhood
Services Director or its designee, or that the applicant has adopted the
recommendations of the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Appeal to District Court.
      (1)   (a)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or
order of the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly
or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the town to the District Court by filling notice of appeal with the Town Clerk
and with the Board of Adjustment within ten days from the filling of the
decisions of the Board of Adjustment which notice shall specify the ground of
such appeal.
         (b)   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the said
Board of Adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the Court Clerk of the county
the original or certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the
case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   (a)   An appeal to the District Court from the Board of Adjustment
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment, from which the appeal is taken,
certifies to the Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay, in his or her
opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or property.
         (b)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the District Court upon application
or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of the ordinance, and upon notice to the Chairperson of
the Board of Adjustment from which the appeal is taken, and upon due cause
being shown, the court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision brought up for review.
(Ord. 2018-12-01, passed 12-13-2018)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
PART 1. GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.010 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The A-1 general agricultural district is established for several purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly
agricultural purposes;
   (B)   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed to
urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety, etc.;
and
   (C)   To restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until
such time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to
flooding.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.011 USES PERMITTED.
   Within the A-1 general agricultural district, the following uses are
permitted:
      Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the following listed principal
uses.
      "Agriculture", as defined in §
155.002 of this title.
      Churches and temples.
      Elementary schools and high schools.
      Extraction of sand, gravel and other minerals not involving any operation
requiring the use of explosives.
      Farmers' markets.
      Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt
courses, or miniature golf courses.
      Mobile homes.
      Municipal or community recreation centers.
      Parks and forest preserves not operated for profit.
      Police or fire stations.
      Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not
for profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries, or
museums.
      Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, or
sanatoriums.
      Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums.
      Public or private schools or colleges.
      Public utility and service uses including electric substations, gas
regulator stations, electric, gas, communications, and water transmission
metering and distribution equipment and structures, microwave relay towers,
water reservoirs or pumping stations and other similar facilities.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of
construction.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.012 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lot area. All lots shall have not less than five acres of land, and
not more than one principal building shall be placed on any one lot.
   (B)   Frontage. Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than 330 feet,
and the depth shall not exceed 2½ times the frontage of the lot.
   (C)   Coverage. Not more than ten percent of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements.
   (D)   Yards.
      (1)   Front. All structures shall have not less than 85 feet from
centerline of roadway.
      (2)   Side. All principal structures shall have not less than a 30 foot
side yard setback. Accessory buildings may have side yards of not less than ten
feet.
      (3)   Rear. All principal structures shall have not less than a 50 foot
rear yard setback. Accessory buildings may have a rear yard of not less than
ten feet.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.013 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   No signs, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall be
permitted in the A-1 district, except as follows:
   (A)   Bulletin board. One bulletin board may be erected on each street
frontage of an educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring
an announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12
square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height, and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Identification sign. One identification sign may be erected on each
street frontage of a single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential use.
The sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height,
and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Real estate sign. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each
street frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial
or industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
PART 2. SUBURBAN AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.020 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is intended to provide for the land situated in the urbanizing
areas of the community where either public water or public sewer is not
available and is used for residential and agricultural purposes or which is
being platted into rural estate type development. Since tracts in this district
will contain residences in close proximity to agricultural activities, such
agricultural activities conducted in this district should not be detrimental to
urban land uses.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.021 USES PERMITTED.
   Within the A-2 suburban agricultural district, the following uses are
permitted:
      Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the following listed principal
uses.
      "Agriculture", as defined in §
155.002 of this title.
      Churches and temples.
      Elementary schools and high schools.
      Farmers' markets.
      Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt
courses, or miniature golf courses.
      Municipal or community recreation centers.
      Parks not operated for profit.
      Police or fire station.
      Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not
for profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries, or
museums.
      Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, or
sanatoriums.
      Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums.
      Public or private schools or colleges.
      Public utility and service uses including electric substations, gas
regulator stations, electric, gas, communications, and water transmission
metering and distribution equipment and structures, microwave relay towers,
water reservoirs or pumping stations and other similar facilities.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of
construction.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.022 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements. All lots and improvements within the A-2 district shall
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. One-half acre where neither public water or
public sewer systems are available.
   (B)   Use of lot. No more than one principal building shall be placed on any
one lot.
   (C)   Frontage. Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than 65 feet from
centerline of road.
   (D)   Coverage. Not more than 20 percent of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements.
   (E)   Height. No improvement or structure shall exceed 35 feet in height
above the mean elevation of the lot.
   (F)   Yards.
      (1)   Front. All structures shall have not less than a 30 foot front yard
setback.
      (2)   Side. All principal structures shall have not less than a 25 foot
side yard setback. Accessory buildings may have side yards of not less than ten
feet.
      (3)   Rear. All principal structures shall have not less than a 50 foot
rear yard setback. Accessory buildings may have a rear yard of not less than
ten feet.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.023 AEROBIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   Aerobic sewer systems may be installed on any lot within the A-2 district,
subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be as established by applicable state
rules and/or regulations depending upon the type of system to be installed.
   (B)   Frontage. Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than 100 feet.
      (1)   If the parcel of land is a wedge shaped lot which meets the
requirements of minimum lot size, it may have less than the minimum requirement
for frontage as long as the front building line of the lot meets the
requirements hereinabove.
   (C)   Maximum coverage. The maximum coverage of any lot with an aerobic
sewer system shall not exceed 60 percent of the area for interior lots nor 75
percent of the lot area for corner lots.
   (D)   Yard requirements. The following minimum setback requirements for
yards shall apply to any use that is constructed or commenced on a parcel of
land in the A-2 district with an aerobic sewer system:
 
Permitted Use Front Yard Side Yard       Rear Yard
                         Both    One
Single-family 100 feet   15 feet 10 feet 20% lot depth
 
   (E)   Use of lot. No more than one principal building shall be placed on any
one lot.
   (F)   Restrictions. No farm livestock will be permitted on property that is
less than two acres. This includes horses, cattle, swine and goats.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.024 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   No signs, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall be
permitted in the A-2 district, except as follows:
   (A)   Bulletin board. One bulletin board may be erected on each street
frontage of an educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring
an announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed 12
square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height, and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Identification sign. One identification sign may be erected on each
street frontage of a single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential use.
The sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height,
and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Real estate sign. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each
street frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial
or industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
PART 3. GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.030 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The R general residential district is established as a district in which the
use of land is for residential purposes and uses directly incidental thereto.
It is the purpose and intent of this district to promote the development and
the continued use of the land for family dwellings and to prohibit commercial
and industrial use or any other use which would substantially interfere with,
or adversely affect, the desirable quality of a residential environment. The
intent is to further discourage any use in this district which would generate
traffic or create congestion on neighborhood streets other than the normal
traffic which serves the residents in this area.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.031 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in the R general residential district may be used for
the following purposes:
      Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the following
listed uses when located on the same lot.
      Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
      Churches.
      Duplex.
      Mobile home trailer park.
      Modular homes.
      Multi-family dwellings.
      Public park, playground, fire station, community center, hospital, or
other similar public facility.
      Public schools, and private schools where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public schools.
      Rooming or boarding house.
      Single-family detached dwellings.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.032 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Water and sewer available. Where both a public water supply system and
a public sewer system is available, no structure or use shall be constructed or
commenced in the R district which does not conform with the following minimum
requirements for lot size:
 
Permitted Use     Minimum Lot Area                    Minimum Frontage2
Single-family     6,000 square feet per dwelling unit 60 feet1
Two-family        5,000 square feet per dwelling unit 80 feet1
Multi-family      2,500 square feet per dwelling unit 100 feet1
Churches          1 acre                              100 feet
Mobile home parks 2½ acres                           200 feet
All other uses    1 acre                              80 feet
 
 
Notes:
1.   If the lot is a wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size, it may have less than the minimum requirement for frontage as long as
the front building line of the lot meets the requirements hereinabove.
2.   The depth of the lot shall not exceed 2½ times the frontage of the lot.
 
   (B)   Water and sewer not available or one system available. The minimum
required lot area for all uses permitted in the R district, except mobile home
parks, shall be the minimum required under applicable state law, rule or
regulation where there is neither a public water supply system nor a public
sewer system available, and the minimum required under applicable state law,
rule or regulation where either a public water supply system or a public sewer
system, one or the other, is available. In all instances, the minimum lot area
required for a mobile home park in an R district shall be two acres if neither
town water nor sewer is available, and one acre where either service is
available.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.033 MAXIMUM COVERAGE.
   The maximum coverage of any lot in the R district shall not exceed 60
percent of the area for interior lots nor 75 percent of the lot area for corner
lots.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.034 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements for yards shall apply to any use that is
constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the R district:
 
Permitted Use  Front Yard Side Yard       Rear Yard
                          Both    One
Single-family  25 feet    10 feet 5 feet  20% lot depth
Two-family     25 feet    10 feet 5 feet  20% lot depth
Multi-family   25 feet    15 feet 5 feet  20% lot depth
All other uses 25 feet    30 feet 15 feet 20% lot depth
 
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.035 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No dwelling structure in the R district shall be constructed with a height
in excess of thirty five feet from the mean lot elevation.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.036 OFF STREET PARKING.
   Off street parking shall be provided as required in Part 15 of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.037 SIGNS.
   No signs, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall be
permitted in the R district, except as follows:
   (A)   Temporary bulletin board; lease or sale of building. A temporary
bulletin board or sign not exceeding 12 square feet in area, pertaining to the
lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board or sign shall be
removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
   (B)   Bulletin board; announcement of activities. One bulletin board may be
erected on each street frontage of an educational, religious, institutional or
similar use requiring announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall
not exceed 12 square feet in surface area nor 15 feet in height; and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Public notices. Official public notices may be erected on affected
property.
   (D)   Nameplate. One non-illuminated nameplate not exceeding two square feet
in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises.
   (E)   Placement of signs. All signs shall be erected on the lot and no
portion of the sign shall encroach on a public right of way or other public
property.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.038 STRUCTURE SIZE.
   No structure or building, intended to be a residence for human habitation,
comprising less than 900 square feet, shall be constructed, placed upon or
moved upon any residential lot(s).
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
PART 1. C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING DISTRICT
§ 155.045 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This commercial district is for the conduct of retail trade and personal
service enterprises to meet the regular needs and for the convenience of the
people of adjacent residential areas. Because these shops and stores may be an
integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with residential,
religious, recreational and educational uses, more restrictive requirements for
light, air, open space and off street parking are made than are provided in
other commercial districts.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.046 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses permitted in R District. Any use permitted in an R General
Residential District.
   (B)   Uses permitted on review in R District. Any use permitted on review in
an R General Residential District.
   (C)   Retail stores. Retail stores and those which supply the regular and
customary needs of the residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily
for their convenience, as follows:
      Art school, gallery or museum.
      Artists' materials, supply studio.
      Automobile parking lot
      Baby shop.
      Bakery goods store.
      Barbershop.
      Beauty shop.
      Book or stationery store.
      Cafe.
      Camera shop.
      Candy store.
      Car wash facility.
      Cleaning, pressing, laundry collection agency.
      Curio or gift shop.
      Dairy products or ice cream store.
      Delicatessen.
      Dress shop.
      Drugstore or fountain.
      Farmers' markets as provided in
Chapter 112 of this Code.
      Grocery store/convenience store not including the retail sale of
gasoline, diesel or other motor fuels.
      Jewelry or notions store.
      Medical facility.
      Messenger or telegraph service.
      Musical instrument sales.
      Newspaper or magazine sales.
      Office business.
      Optometrists sales and service.
      Pharmacy.
      Photographer studio.
      Radio and television sales and service.
      Self-service laundry or dry cleaning.
      Sewing machine sales, instruction.
      Shoe repair shop.
      Sporting goods sales.
      Tailor shop.
      Toy store.
   Provided, however, no single family residences shall be allowed in C-1 or
any commercial district where such use is contrary to the Comprehensive Plan(s)
adopted by the Town of Wellston.
   (D)   Nameplate and sign. Nameplate and sign relating only to the use of the
store and premises or to products sold on the premises; not to exceed 20 square
feet, no flashing lights.
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to the above uses.
   (F)   Restrictions. A building used for any of the above enumerated uses may
not have more than 40 percent of its floor area devoted to purposes incidental
to the primary use. No material or goods offered for sale or stored in
connection with the uses enumerated in subsections (A) through (E) of this
section shall be displayed or stored outside a building.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.047 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   None.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.048 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The area requirements for dwellings shall be the same as the requirement of
the R General Residential District. The following requirements shall apply to
all other uses permitted in this district:
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-way
line to provide a front yard having not less than 25 feet in depth.
   (B)   Side yard. When siding on a residential district, the side yard
setback shall be one foot for each one foot of height of the commercial primary
structure. However, the side yard setback shall not be less than 20 feet, and a
solid wall or fence shall be constructed in accordance with section 11-9-9 of
this title. There shall be a side yard setback from an intersecting street of
not less than 20 feet. The side yard requirements of this section shall not
apply when abutting a C-2 General Commercial District or a C-3 Intensive
Commercial District.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, tear yard,
or combination thereof, of not less than 30 feet.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.049 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 2½ stories or 35 feet in height based on the mean
lot elevation.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.050 OFF STREET PARKING.
   Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet the off street
parking requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.051 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   Signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays in
the C-1 District shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Business sign. One business sign not exceeding 80 square feet of
surface area may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. Ground signs
shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal use is
located or 20 feet, whichever is lower. No business sign shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from such district.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Real estate. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease
of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each street
frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial or
industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Placement of signs. All signs in the C-1 District shall be erected
upon private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk,
except as provided by the applicable codes of the Town of Wellston and then
they shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet and shall not have a
maximum projection greater than 72 inches from the front building line.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
PART 2. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.060 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This commercial district is intended for the conduct of personal and
business services and the general retail business of the community. Persons
living in the community and in the surrounding trade territory require direct
and frequent access. Traffic generated by the uses will be primarily passenger
vehicles and those trucks and commercial vehicles required for stocking and
delivery of retail goods.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.061 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-2 general commercial district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses in C-1 District. Any use permitted in a C-1 neighborhood
commercial district.
   (B)   Uses enclosed within building. When completely enclosed within a
building or buildings, the following uses are permitted:
      Automobile and machinery repairing if conducted in conjunction with a
retail agency, but not including automobile or machinery wrecking
establishments or junkyards.
      New automobile sales and service.
      New machinery sales and service.
      Public garages, provided no gasoline is stored aboveground.
      Used automobile and machinery sales and service.
   (C)   Uses enumerated. The following uses are permitted:
      Advertising signs or structures.
      Ambulance service, office or garage.
      Antique shop.
      Appliance store.
      Automobile retail gasoline service station.
      Bait sales.
      Bakery.
      Bank.
      Catering establishment
      Child daycare facility.
      Cleaning plant
      Clothing or apparel store.
      Commercial school or hall.
      Department store.
      Drive-in restaurant.
      Dry goods store.
      Electric supply.
      Electric transmission station.
      Feed and seed store.
      Florist shop, greenhouse, nursery.
      Frozen food locker.
      Funeral parlor or mortuary.
      Furniture repair and upholstery.
      Furniture store.
      Golf course, miniature or practice range.
      Grocery store/convenience store including the retail sale of gasoline,
diesel or other motor fuels.
      Hardware store.
      Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, sales and service.
      Hospital for small animals.
      Ice storage locker plant or storage house for food.
      Interior decorating store.
      Key shop.
      Laboratories, testing and experimental.
      Laundry.
      Leather goods shop.
      Lumberyard.
      Meat market.
      Museum.
      Music or television shop.
      Novelty shop.
      Nursery or garden supply store.
      Outdoor advertising signs.
      Pawnshop.
      Pet shop.
      Printing plant
      Recreation centers.
      Research laboratories.
      Restaurant
      Sign painting shop.
      Stock and bond broker.
      Storage warehouse.
      Theater.
      Used automobile sales.
      Variety store.
      Wholesale distributing center.
      Winery.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses. Buildings, structures and uses accessory
and customarily incidental to any of the above uses; provided, that there shall
be no manufacturing, processing or compounding of products other than such as
are customarily incidental and essential to retail establishments.
   (E)   Other uses. Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering
personal, professional or business service which does not produce more noise,
odor, dust, vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated above.
   (F)   Sale, auction. Sale or auction facility.
   (G)   Wrecker services and vehicle impound yards. Wrecker services and
vehicle impound yards provided they are enclosed by a solid fence of not less
than eight feet in height, or all impounded vehicles are stored inside a
building. Wrecker services and impound yards do not include any form of vehicle
salvage, parting or wrecking operations. Wrecker service and impound yards
shall not be located on lots of less than two acres in size. The size of any
impound yard shall not exceed two acres regardless of the size of the lot and
the fence enclosing the impound yard shall be set back not less than 15 feet
from any property line, abutting road or street. In the event existing rules or
regulations require a greater setback, such greater setback shall control. The
principal entrance gate shall be set back not less than 100 feet from the
street, road or highway it abuts.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.062 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   None.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.063 OPEN DISPLAY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Uses enumerated. The following uses shall be permitted in the C-
2 General Commercial District; provided, that they comply with the additional
provisions of this subsection:
      Boat sales and service.
      Farm implement and machinery, new and used, sales.
      Metal and wood fencing. ornamental grillwork and decorative wrought
ironwork and play equipment sales.
      Mobile home and travel trailer sales.
      Monument sales.
      New and used automobile sales.
      Prefabricated house sales.
      Trailers for hauling, rental and sales.
   (B)   Requirements. The uses enumerated in subsection (A) of this section
shall comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   Landscaping of yards. All yards, unoccupied with buildings or
merchandise or not used as trafficways, shall be landscaped with grass and
shrubs and maintained in good condition the year round.
      (2)   Lots and driveways paved. All of the lots used for the parking of
vehicles, for the storage and display of merchandise, and all driveways used
for vehicle ingress and egress shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement
and maintained in such a manner that no dust will be produced by continued use.
      (3)   Servicing vehicles; enclosed building. All servicing of vehicles
carried on as an incidental part of the sales operation shall be conducted
within a completely enclosed building.
      (4)   Driveway width. Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not
exceed 25 feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an
arrangement of reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere
with adjacent land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a
flashing or intermittent type.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.064 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the requirements of
the R General Residential District. The following requirements shall apply to
all other uses permitted in this district:
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   Front and side yard. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings. When C-2 General Commercial
District abuts an R district, the front and side yard requirements shall be the
same as C-1 Neighborhood Commercial.
      (2)   Rear yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear
yard, or combination thereof, of not less than 30 feet in width.
   (B)   Parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet
the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.065 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed 90 feet in height.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.066 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   Signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays in
the C-2 District shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Business sign. One business sign not exceeding 80 square feet of
surface area may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. Ground signs
shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal use is
located or 20 feet, whichever is lower. No business sign shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from such district.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Real estate sign. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each
street frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial
or industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Placement of signs. All signs in the C-2 District shall be erected
upon private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk,
except as provided by the applicable codes of the Town of Wellston and then
they shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet and shall not have a
maximum projection greater than 72 inches.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
PART 3. C-3 INTENSIVE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.075 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This commercial district is intended for the conduct of personal and
business services and the general retail business of the community. Persons
living in the community and in the surrounding trade territory require direct
and frequent access. Traffic generated by the uses will be primarily passenger
vehicles and those trucks and commercial vehicles required for stocking and
delivery of retail goods. These uses create more traffic noise or congestion
thus require greater consideration as to location than do other commercial
uses.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.076 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-3 Intensive Commercial District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses in C-2 District. Any use permitted in a C-2 General Commercial
District, except R General Residential uses.
   (B)   Amusements; enterprises. Amusements and other enterprises as follows:
      Bus terminal.
      Dance hall.
      Drive-in theater.
      Kennel.
      Liquor store.
      Motel.
      Nightclub.
      Recreational vehicle parks and/or campgrounds.
      Roller skating rink.
      Tavern.
      Travel trailer park.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses. Buildings, structures and uses accessory
and customarily incidental to any of the above uses; provided, that there shall
be no manufacturing, producing or compounding of products other than such as
are customarily incidental and essential to retail establishments.
   (D)   Other stores, shops. Any other store or shop for retail trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated
above.
   (E)   Correctional facility. Correctional facility.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.077 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   None.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.078 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements shall apply to all other uses permitted in this
district:
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   Front and side yards. There are no specific front and side yard
requirements for uses. When C-3 Intensive Commercial abuts an R District, the
front and side yard requirements shall be the same as C-1 Neighborhood
Commercial District.
      (2)   Rear yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear
yard, or combination thereof, of not less than 30 feet in width.
   (B)   Parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet
the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.079 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed 90 feet in height.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.080 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   Signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays in
the C-3 District shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Business sign. One business sign not exceeding 80 square feet of
surface area may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. Ground signs
shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal use is
located or 20 feet, whichever is lower. No business sign shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from such district.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Real estate sign. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each
street frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial
or industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Placement of signs. All signs in the C-3 District shall be erected
upon private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk,
except as provided by the applicable codes of the Town of Wellston and then
they shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet and shall not have a
maximum projection greater than 72 inches from the front building line.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
I GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.090 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose of the I general industrial district is to provide a location
for industries and to preserve such land for industry that is most beneficial
to industries and to prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the traffic
generated and other objectionable influences which may be created in this
district, it is necessary to provide a buffer or setback area between this
district and any other zoning district.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.091 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Property and buildings in an I district shall be used
only for the uses enumerated below. Any of the following uses shall be
permitted:
      Automobile wrecking and junkyards, provided they are enclosed by a solid
fence of not less than eight feet (8') in height.
      Bottling works, cannery, or preserving factories.
      Building materials sales.
      Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
      Compounding, processing and blending of chemical products, but not
including any materials which decompose by detonation.
      Fuel sales and storage.
      General and administrative office.
      Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops,
provided they do not include any of the following equipment:
         1.   Automatic screw machines;
         2.   Drop forges; or
         3.   Riveting machines.
      Mail order houses.
      Manufacturing and assembling electrical and electronic products and
equipment.
      Manufacturing and assembling (for any combination of such processes)
products from cork, felt, fur, glass, leather, plastic, or wood, and other
textiles, but not including, as a principal operation, the processing of any
raw materials.
      Milk bottling and distribution.
      Milling companies and grain elevators.
      Motor freight terminals.
      Outdoor shooting ranges for weapons provided such establishments are
located so that they do not pose a danger to residences, schools, churches or
other occupied structures.
      Printing and binding plants.
      Research laboratories.
      Sheet metal shops.
      Sign painting.
      Utility service installation.
      Warehouses and storage facilities.
      Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and lift stations.
      Welding shops.
   (B)   Other processes or establishments. Any other manufacturing process or
establishment similar to the above.
   (C)   Public buildings, uses. Any public building or use.
   (D)   Retail stores in C-1 District. All uses listed in §
155.061, inclusive, of this title.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.092 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   There are no requirements for minimum lot area in the I District.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.093 MAXIMUM COVERAGE.
   Buildings shall not cover more than 40 percent of the site on which the use
is located.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.094 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No structure shall be erected, commenced, or maintained which has a front
yard setback of less than 50 feet. A side yard or rear yard of 50 feet or two
feet of setback for each one foot of height, whichever is greater, shall be
provided when adjacent to a residential district, and provided that a solid
wall or fence in accordance with section 11-9-9 of this title shall be
constructed on the side or rear property line where the property abuts an R
District, and a solid wall or fence in accordance with section 11-9-9 of this
title shall be constructed on all sides of a junk or salvage yard.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.095 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   There are no requirements for minimum height in the I District.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.096 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off street parking shall be as required in chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.097 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   Signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards or other similar displays in the
I District shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Business signs. Business signs not exceeding in the aggregate one
square foot of display surface area per one linear foot of street frontage may
be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. Ground signs and billboards
shall not exceed 30 feet in height. No sign or billboard shall be located
within 50 feet of a residential district if visible from such district.
Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   (B)   Real estate sign. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or an approved development area may be erected on each
street frontage of the parcel, development, or other agricultural, commercial
or industrial zoned tract having the same ownership as that of the property,
premises or tract being advertised. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet
in individual surface area nor 15 feet in height; and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   (C)   Placement of signs. All signs in the I District shall be erected upon
private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk, except
as provided by the applicable codes of the Town of Wellston and then they shall
not overhang at a height of less than nine feet and shall not have a maximum
projection greater than 72 inches.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
§ 155.105 COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS; EXCEPTION.
   No land, building, structure, or improvement shall be used and no building,
structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered,
enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be used or
maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the use,
height, area, coverage, yard, space, and other requirements established in the
district in which such land, building, structure, or improvement is located,
and such use is not authorized, except as provided by chapter 10 of this title
regarding nonconformities.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.106 MORE RESTRICTIVE DISTRICT REGULATIONS PREVAIL.
   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district permit
the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to the
conditions set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district, unless
otherwise specified.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.107 RESIDENTIAL USES RESTRICTED TO RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   It is intended that this title be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling
unit to be located on the same lot with or within a structure used or intended
to be used primarily for nonresidential purposes, except that one accessory
residential unit may be provided for a night watchman, motel manager, or
similar purpose where essential to the main use of the lot.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.108 DIVISION OF LOTS.
   An improved lot shall not hereafter be divided into two or more lots unless
all lots resulting from such division comply with all the applicable yard,
space, area, parking and loading regulations of the zoning district in which
located.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.109 USE OF YARDS.
   No building, structure, or improvement shall be permitted to encroach upon
required yard spaces set forth in the provisions of this title. Surfaced
parking facilities, signs, fences, and gasoline pumping service units may be
permitted to occupy required yard space unless otherwise prohibited in those
districts permitting such improvements; and provided, that no inoperative
vehicle may be stored in the front yard of a lot in a residential district.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.110 STREET ACCESS.
   No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.111 TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parking on lot. Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types,
including travel, camping and hauling, and mobile homes shall not be parked or
stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any residential
district, except in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   No more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed 1½ tons'
rated capacity, per family living on the premises shall be permitted; and in no
case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline, or
liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
      (2)   No more than one camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer per
family living on the premises shall be permitted, and the trailer shall not
exceed 24 feet in length or eight feet in width. The trailer shall not be
parked for more than 48 hours unless it is located behind the front yard
building line. A camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied either
temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the
incorporated limits, except in a mobile home park authorized under the
ordinances of the Town of Wellston, except as provided for in subsection (B) of
this section.
      (3)   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a mobile home park
which is in conformity with ordinances of the Town of Wellston.
   (B)   Display of vehicles. Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types may
be displayed in such commercial districts allowing sales of the vehicles or in
such industrial districts allowing their manufacture. The vehicles may not be
used for dwelling purposes, either temporarily or permanently, except in a
mobile home park authorized under the ordinances of the Town of Wellston.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.112 SEWER SERVICE.
   No structure or use in any district shall be erected or commenced which does
not have a connection to the public sewer system, unless and until the county
public health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal
system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for making his
decision, the public health officer may require such percolation tests as he
deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the property
owner.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.113 GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS.
   In the case of a housing project consisting of a group of two or more
buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground of at least two acres, the
height, area and setback requirements of this title may be modified by the Town
Board upon the recommendation of the planning commission following the
submission of an application for such development by the applicant in such
cases where the application will provide a development that will be in harmony
with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a density of land use no
higher and a standard of open space at least as high as required by this title
in the district in which the proposed project is to be located. In no case
shall a use or building height or density of population be permitted which is
less than the requirements of the district in which the housing project is to
be located.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 155.114 SPECIAL USE PERMITS; REVIEW; COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
   The uses listed under the various districts herein as special permit uses
are so classified because they more intensely dominate the area in which they
are located than do other uses permitted in the district; however, the nature
of such uses make it desirable that they may be permitted to locate therein.
The following procedure is established to integrate property into special
permit uses with other land uses located in the district:
   (A)   Review process; notice; hearing. These uses shall be reviewed and
authorized or rejected under the following procedures:
      (1)   An application shall be filed with the Town of Wellston planning
commission for review. The application shall show the location or intended use
of the site, the names of all the property owners and existing land uses within
300 feet and any other material or information pertinent to the request which
the planning commission may require.
      (2)   Notice shall be published and mailed to property owners at least
seven days before the hearing.
      (3)   The planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon.
      (4)   The planning commission shall, within 45 days of the date of the
application, transmit to the Town board its report as to the effect of such
proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities, and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare, and the recommendation of the planning commission concerning the use
thereon. Thereupon, the Town board may authorize or deny the issuance of a
permit for the use ofland or buildings as requested.
   (B)   Filing fee. Fees for the filing of a special use permit application
shall be set by motion or resolution of the Town board.
   (C)   Communication services; towers; cellular telephone, radio and
television. The following criteria are established for each use subject to
review before issuance of a special permit:
      (1)   Districts. Eligible in A-1, A-2, C-2, C-3, industrial.
      (2)   Height and anchors.
         (a)   Any tower anchored to the ground which is proposed to extend to
a height of over 50 feet.
         (b)   Any tower attached to a building which is proposed to reach a
height over 20 feet above the roofline of the building.
      (3)   Standards for ground anchored towers.
         (a)   Towers and antennas shall be located on a site so as to provide
a minimum distance equal to 110 percent of the height of the tower from all
property lines; provided, however, that the council may modify this requirement
where tower design will assure that a collapsing tower will fall within a
smaller area.
         (b)   All tower supports and peripheral anchors shall be located
entirely within the boundaries of the property and shall not be less than five
feet from the property line.
         (c)   A wall or chainlink fence not less than eight feet in height
from finished grade shall be provided around any high voltage equipment.
            1.   Access shall be through a locked gate;
            2.   Signs shall be located every 20 feet, attached to the fence or
wall, and shall display in large bold letters the following:
            HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER
         (d)   Equipment, mobile or immobile, that is not necessary for direct
support of the use, shall not be stored or parked on the site unless repairs to
the facility are being made, or unless the zoning district permits such a use.
(Ord. 2022-11-01, passed 11-10-2022)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 155.120 MEMBERSHIP CREATED.
   (A)   A town planning commission is hereby created for the town. It shall
consist of not less than five appointive members, all of whom shall be
residents of the town, and the Chairperson of the Town Board of Trustees and
the Town Engineer (if any) as ex officio members. The appointive members shall
be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Trustees and shall
serve for terms based on state law reference (municipal planning commissions,
see 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 to 45-105).
   (B)   The members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   The town’s Board of Trustees may remove members of the town’s Planning
Commission for cause.
(Ord. 2022-06-01, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 155.121 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson
and Secretary. The Secretary need not be a member of the Commission. The
Commission shall determine the time and place its regular meetings; and the
Chairperson or any three members may call special meetings of the Commission.
The Commission may employ engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help deemed
necessary, subject to the approval of the town’s Board of Trustees. Their
salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Board and shall be paid out of
the town treasury as other salaries and compensation are paid. The necessary
legal expenses shall be paid out of the town treasury as other legal expenses
of the town government are paid.
(Ord. 2022-06-01, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 155.122 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties
prescribed for it by state law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter
prescribed for it by any other provision of ordinance or law.
(Ord. 2022-06-01, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 155.123 HAVING POWER OF ZONING COMMISSION,
   (A)   The town’s Planning Commission is hereby appointed the zoning
commission of the town, and the town’s Planning Commission shall have the
powers of a zoning commission or the powers of a zoning commission, it shall be
legally one board know as the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   Exercising the powers of a zoning commission, the town’s Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zone and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a zoning commission by state law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable state law to such authorities.
(Ord. 2022-06-01, passed 6-27-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
Oklahoma Statutes Cite Code Section
Oklahoma Statutes Cite   Code Section
2 O.S. 7-401 et seq.     91.66
10A O.S. 2-2-102         133.08
10A O.S. 2-2-101 et seq. 133.99
11 O.S. 1-102            51.23;
                         91.48
11 O.S. 8-102            30.16
11 O.S. 8-105            31.01
11 O.S. 8-106            31.20;
                         31.21
11 O.S. 8-109            30.16;
                         31.20
11 O.S. 10-118           35.01
11 O.S. 12-101           30.15
11 O.S. 12-102           30.16
11 O.S. 12-103           30.16
11 O.S. 12-104           30.01
11 O.S. 12-105           30.01
11 O.S. 12-107           30.17
11 O.S. 12-109           31.20
11 O.S. 12-110           31.21
11 O.S. 12-113           31.02;
                         31.21
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.   Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-107           150.01
11 O.S. 14-108           10.01
11 O.S. 14-109           10.01
11 O.S. 14-111           10.99
11 O.S. 15-101 et seq.   30.17
11 O.S. 16-112           36.50
11 O.S. 16-205           30.16;
                         31.20
11 O.S. 16-302           30.17
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.   Ch. 10
11 O.S. 22-106           110.01
11 O.S. 22-107           110.01;
                         110.07
11 O.S. 22-108           133.11
11 O.S. 22-115           90.01
11 O.S. 27-101           32.01
11 O.S. 27-101 et seq.   32.01
11 O.S. 27-102           32.01
11 O.S. 27-111           32.38
11 O.S. 27-119           10.99
11 O.S. 27-123           32.51
11 O.S. 27-124           32.48
11 O.S. 29-106 to 29-109 33.25
11 O.S. 29-201 et seq.   33.15
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.   33.01
11 O.S. 45-101 to 45-105 155.120
11 O.S. 49-101 et seq.   31.60
11 O.S. 49-122           31.61
19 O.S. 645              31.21
21 O.S.                  133.06
21 O.S. 1704             131.01
21 O.S. 1706             131.01
21 O.S. 1713             131.02
25 O.S. 301 et seq.      32.49
25 O.S. 301 et seq.      30.17
37 O.S.                  111.02;
                         133.01
37 O.S. 163.1            133.01
37 O.S. 213              111.35
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.   111.01
37A O.S. 4-104           111.02
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.    70.01;
                         70.35
47 O.S. 6-101 et seq.    73.04
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.   70.31;
                         70.35
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.   73.03
47 O.S. 11-104           70.11
47 O.S. 11-106           70.13
47 O.S. 11-201(a)        71.01
47 O.S. 11-201(b)        71.02
47 O.S. 11-204           71.07
47 O.S. 11-207           71.03
47 O.S. 11-301           73.09
47 O.S. 11-308           71.09
47 O.S. 11-309           71.08
47 O.S. 11-402           73.11
47 O.S. 11-403(b)        71.11
47 O.S. 11-403(c)        71.12
47 O.S. 11-405           70.13
47 O.S. 11-601           73.02
47 O.S. 11-604           73.02
47 O.S. 11-703(c)        71.12
47 O.S. 11-703(d)        71.11
47 O.S. 11-704           73.17
47 O.S. 11-901           73.12
47 O.S. 11-902           73.13
47 O.S. 11-1003          74.05
47 O.S. 11-1004(c)       74.04
47 O.S. 11-1105          70.07
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)       70.14
47 O.S. 11-1109          70.15
47 O.S. 11-1201          75.01
47 O.S. 11-1202          75.02
47 O.S. 11-1203          75.04
47 O.S. 12-101 et seq.   70.03
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.   70.04
47 O.S. 15-102(a)        71.09;
                         73.02
47 O.S. 15-108           71.10
47 O.S. 954A             72.01
47 O.S. 955              72.01
51 O.S. 121 et seq.      31.40
51 O.S. 125              31.40
51 O.S. 151 et seq.      115.22
59 O.S. 353.1            36.53
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.     150.20;
                         150.22
59 O.S. 1016             150.24
59 O.S. 1680 to 1696     150.35
60 O.S. 176              35.24
60 O.S. 176(g)           35.24
60 O.S. 176-180          35.26
61 O.S. 101 et seq.      35.06;
                         35.24
62 O.S. 516.1 et seq.    35.02
63 O.S. 1-1101 et seq.   91.65
63 O.S. 2-101            133.02
63 O.S. 683.11           34.01
68 O.S. 205              36.25;
                         36.63
68 O.S. 217              36.22;
                         36.59
68 O.S. 220              36.22;
                         36.60
                         36.22;
68 O.S. 227              36.23;
                         36.61
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.     36.45
68 O.S. 1352             36.46
68 O.S. 1401             36.27
68 O.S. 1408             36.20
68 O.S. 1501 et seq.     115.01
68 O.S. 1621 et seq.     132.04
68 O.S. 1624             132.04
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.     36.02
68 O.S. 2701             36.45
68 O.S. 50004            115.01
74 O.S. 324.8            150.01
75 O.S. 309 to 317       32.21
                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
1-102      10.05
1-107      10.20
1-108      10.99
1-109      10.99
1-110      10.15
2-101      30.15
2-102      30.16
2-103      30.17
2-104      30.18
2-105      30.19
2-201      30.01
2-301      31.20
2-302      31.21
2-303      31.22
2-304      31.23
2-305      31.06
2-306      31.01
2-307      31.02
2-308      31.02
2-309      31.02
2-310      31.03
2-311      31.04
2-312      31.05
2-401      31.40
2-402      31.41
2-403      31.42
2-404      31.43
2-405      31.44
2-406      31.45
2-501      31.60
2-502      31.61
3-101      111.01
3-102      111.02
3-103      111.03
3-104      111.04
3-105      111.05
3-106      111.06
3-107      111.07
3-108      111.08
3-109      111.09
3-110      111.10
3-111      111.11
3-112      111.99
3-201      111.25
3-202      111.26
3-203      111.27
3-204      111.28
3-205      111.29
3-206      111.30
3-207      111.31
3-208      111.32
3-209      111.33
3-210      111.34
3-211      111.35
3-212      111.99
4-101      90.01
4-102      90.02
4-103      90.03
4-104      90.04
4-105      90.04
4-106      90.04
4-108      90.05
4-109      90.06
4-110      90.07
4-111      90.08
4-112      90.09
4-114      90.10
4-120      90.11
5-101      150.01
5-102      150.02
5-103      150.99
5-104      150.03
5-105      150.04
5-106      150.05
5-107      150.05
5-201      150.20
5-202      150.21
5-203      150.22
5-204      150.23
5-205      150.24
5-301      150.35
5-302      150.36
5-303      150.37
5-304      150.38
5-305      150.39
5-306      150.40
5-307      150.41
5-308      150.42
5-309      150.43
5-310      150.44
5-401      152.01
5-402      152.02
5-403      152.03
5-501      151.01
5-601      150.55
5-701      150.56;
           150.99
5-801      94.01
5-802      94.02
5-803      94.03
5-806      94.04
5-807      94.05
5-808      94.99
5-901      150.99
5-902      150.99
5-1001     151.15
5-1002     151.16
5-1003     151.17
5-1004     151.18
6-101      32.01
6-102      32.02
6-103      32.03
6-104      32.15
6-105      32.16
6-106      32.17
6-107      32.18
6-108      32.19
6-109      32.20
6-110      32.21
6-111      32.22
6-112      32.23
6-113      32.35
6-114      32.36
6-115      32.37
6-116      32.38
6-117      32.39
6-118      32.40
6-119      32.41
6-120      32.42
6-122      32.43
6-123      32.44
6-124      32.45
6-126      32.46
6-127      32.47
6-129      32.48
6-132      32.49
7-101      35.01
7-102      35.02
7-103      35.03
7-104      35.04
7-105      35.05
7-106      35.06
7-107      35.07
7-108      35.08
7-109      35.09
7-201      36.45
7-202      36.46
7-203      36.47
7-204      36.48
7-205      36.49
7-206      36.50
7-207      36.51
7-208      36.52
7-209      36.52
7-210      36.52
7-211      36.53
7-212      36.53
7-213      36.53
7-214      36.53
7-215      36.54
7-216      36.55
7-217      36.56
7-218      36.57
7-219      36.58
7-220      36.59
7-221      36.60
7-222      36.61
7-223      36.62
7-224      36.63
7-225      36.64
7-226      36.65
7-301      36.01
7-302      36.01
7-401      36.02
7-402      36.02
7-403      36.02
7-404      36.02
7-405      36.02
8-101      91.01
8-102      91.02
8-104      91.03
8-105      91.03
8-106      91.04
8-107      91.05
8-201      91.65;
           91.99
8-202      91.66
8-203      91.67
8-204      91.99
8-301      91.20
8-302      91.21
8-303      91.22
8-304      91.23
8-305      91.24
8-307      91.25
8-308      91.26
8-309      91.27
8-310      91.28
8-311      91.29
8-312      91.99
8-401      91.45
8-402      91.46
8-403      91.47
8-404      91.48
8-405      91.49
8-407      91.50
8-408      91.50
8-409      91.99
8-501      51.20
8-502      51.21
8-503      51.22
8-504      51.23
8-505      51.24
8-507      51.25
8-508      51.25
8-509      51.99
9-101      110.01
9-102      110.02
9-103      110.03
9-104      110.04
9-105      110.05
9-106      110.06
9-107      110.07
9-108      110.08
9-109      115.01
9-110      115.02
9-111      115.03
9-112      115.04
9-113      115.05
9-114      110.99
10-101     130.01
10-102     130.02
10-201     131.01
10-202     131.02
10-203     131.03
10-204     131.04
10-205     131.05
10-206     131.06
10-207     131.07
10-208     131.08
10-209     131.09
10-210     131.10
10-211     131.11
10-212     131.12
10-213     131.12
10-214     131.13
10-215     131.14
10-216     131.15
10-301     132.01
10-302     132.02
10-303     132.03
10-304     132.04
10-305     132.05
10-307     132.06
10-308     132.07
10-309     132.08
10-401     133.01
10-402     133.01
10-403     133.01
10-404     133.02
10-405     133.03
10-406     133.04
10-407     133.04
10-408     133.04
10-409     133.05
10-410     133.06
10-411     133.06
10-412     133.07
10-413     133.08
10-413     133.99
10-414     133.09
10-415     133.10
10-416     133.11
10-417     133.11
10-418     133.12
10-419     133.13
10-420     133.14
10-501     131.30
10-601     134.01
10-602     134.02
10-603     134.03
10-604     134.04
10-605     134.05
10-606     134.06
10-607     134.07
10-608     134.08
10-609     134.09
10-610     134.10
10-701     130.99
11-106     93.15
11-107     93.16
11-108     93.17
11-201     95.01
11-202     95.02
11-203     95.03
11-204     95.04
11-205     95.04
11-206     95.04
11-207     95.05
11-208     95.06
11-209     95.03
11-210     95.05
12-201     154.01
12-202     154.02
12-203     154.03
12-204     154.04
12-205     154.05
12-206     154.06
12-207     154.07
12-208     154.08
12-209     154.09
12-210     154.10
12-211     154.11
12-212     154.12
12-213     154.13
12-214     154.14
           92.01—
13-101     92.08;
           92.99
13-201     33.15
13-202     33.16
13-203     33.17
13-204     33.18
13-205     33.19
13-206     33.20
13-207     33.21
13-208     33.22
13-209     33.23
13-210     33.24
13-211     33.25
13-301     33.01
13-302     33.02
13-303     33.03
13-401     34.01
13-402     34.02
13-403     34.03
13-404     34.03
13-405     34.04
14-101     153.01
14-102     153.99
14-103     153.01
14-104     153.02
14-105     153.02
14-106     153.03
14-107     153.04
14-108     153.05
14-109     153.05
14-110     153.06
14-111     153.07
14-112     153.08
14-113     153.99
15-101     70.01
15-102     70.02
15-103     70.03
15-104     70.04
15-105     70.05
15-106     70.06
15-107     70.07
15-108     70.08
15-109     70.09
15-110     70.10
15-111     70.11
15-112     70.12
15-113     70.13
15-114     70.13
15-115     70.14
15-116     70.15
15-117     70.30
15-118     70.31;
           70.99
15-119     70.32
15-120     70.32
15-121     70.32
15-122     70.32
15-123     70.32
15-124     70.33
15-125     70.34
15-126     70.35
15-201     73.03
15-202     73.04
15-203     73.05
15-204     73.06
15-205     73.07
15-206     73.08
15-207     73.09
15-208     73.10
15-209     73.11
15-210     73.12
15-211     73.13
15-212     73.14
15-213     73.15
15-214     73.16
15-215     73.17
15-220     73.01
15-221     73.01
15-230     74.01
15-231     74.02
15-232     74.03
15-233     74.04
15-234     74.04
15-235     74.05
15-236     74.05
15-237     74.06
15-238     74.06
15-239     74.07
15-240     74.08
15-250     73.02
15-251     73.02
15-252     73.02
15-301     71.01
15-302     71.02
15-303     71.03
15-304     71.04
15-305     71.05
15-306     71.06
15-307     71.07
15-308     71.08
15-309     71.09
15-310     71.10
15-311     71.10
15-312     71.11
15-313     71.12
15-401     75.01
15-402     75.02
15-403     75.03
15-404     75.04
15-405     75.05
15-406     75.06
15-407     75.07
15-408     75.08
15-409     75.09
15-501     72.01
15-502     72.02
15-504     72.03
15-505     72.04
15-506     72.05
15-507     72.06
15-508     72.07
15-509     72.08
15-510     72.09
15-511     72.10
15-512     72.11
15-513     72.12
15-514     72.13
15-601     70.99
17-101     50.01
17-102     50.02
17-104     50.03
17-105     50.04
17-106     50.05
17-107     50.06
17-108     50.07
17-109     50.08
17-202     52.002
17-204     52.017
17-206     52.075
17-207     52.075
17-208     52.075
17-209     52.075
17-210     52.99
17-301     53.01
17-302     53.02
17-303     53.03
17-304     53.04
17-305     53.05
17-306     53.06
17-307     53.07
17-401     51.01;
           51.99
17-402     51.02
17-403     51.03
17-404     51.04
17-405     51.05
17-407     51.06
17-408     51.07
17-409     51.08
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
2014-01-01 1-23-2014   95.04
2023-03-01 3-9-2023    35.40
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
406        2-1-1978    94.01—94.06;
                       94.99
81-1       1-22-1981   31.21
81-2       1-22-1981   31.20
83-5       11-8-1983   36.52
85-1       1-3-1985    31.20
85-2       1-3-1985    31.21
85-4       4-6-1985    33.25
86-5       12-2-1986   134.11;
                       134.99
87-1       1-9-1987    30.21
9-1        9-1-1987    33.25
87-5       10-6-1987   74.09;
                       74.99
88-1       10-4-1988   30.17
89-1       2-7-1989    31.62
89-4       10-3-1989   74.05
93-9-1     9-87-1993   36.52
94-1       12-28-1993  31.62
10-6-94    10-6-1994   36.01
1995-08    9-5-1995    95.05
-          11-7-1995   152.01
95-11-1    11-7-1995   35.20—
                       35.26
96-6-2     6-25-1996   31.62
97-5-1     5-1-1997    133.08;
                       133.99
-          6-5-1997    152.01
97-501     6-5-1997    152.01
7-107      9-3-1998    35.07
                       91.01—
                       91.05;
                       91.20—
98-11-1    11- -1998   91.29;
                       91.45—
                       91.50;
                       91.99
-          11-5-1998   51.20—51.26
98-11-2    11-5-1998   31.62
99-2       2-4-1999    70.16;
                       70.99
-          4-15-1999   151.30—
                       151.33
99-601     6-3-1999    74.05
-          9-2-1999    70.99
2000-3-1   3-2-2000    36.52
2000-7-1   7-6-2000    131.16
2001-2-1   2-15-2001   36.15—
                       36.30
2022-6-1   6-6-2002    93.01;
                       93.99
2016-07-01 7-21-2016   30.20
                       151.45—
2016-08-01 8-11-2016   151.47;
                       151.99
-          - -2017     32.04
2019-02-02 2-14-2018   112.01—
                       112.07
2018-12-01 12-13-2018  155.003
2018-12-02 12-13-2018  31.24
2019-02-01 3-14-2019   31.21
2019-09-01 3-14-2019   31.25
                       75.20—
2019-11-01 12-14-2019  75.25;
                       75.99
                       110.01;
2020-10-01 10-8-2020   113.01—
                       113.03
2021-05-01 9-9-2021    30.02
2021-09-01 9-9-2021    115.20—
                       115.26
2021-09-03 9-9-2021    114.01—
                       114.10
-          - -2022     32.04
2022-3-1   3-10-2022   116.01—
                       116.05
2022-4-2   4-14-2022   132.04
2022-06-01 6-27-2022   155.120—
                       155.123
                       52.001;
                       52.015—
                       52.021;
                       52.035—
                       52.040;
-          7-1-2022    52.055—
                       52.064;
                       52.075—
                       52.082;
                       52.999;
                       53.20—
                       53.22
                       155.001;
                       155.002;
                       155.010—
                       155.013;
                       155.020—
                       155.024;
                       155.030—
                       155.038;
2022-11-01 11-10-2022  155.045—
                       155.051;
                       155.060—
                       155.066;
                       155.075—
                       155.080;
                       155.090—
                       155.097;
                       155.105—
                       155.114
2023-10-01 10-12-2023  Adopting Ordinance
                      
 
 
