WEST SILOAM SPRINGS, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-06-01, passed 6-16-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-04-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF WEST SILOAM SPRINGS,
OKLAHOMA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCE OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCE, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of West
Siloam Springs are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and authorize
the Town of West Siloam Springs to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma,
has authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the
ordinances of the Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma, of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF WEST
SILOAM SPRINGS, OKLAHOMA:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of West Siloam Springs as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of West
Siloam Springs, Oklahoma."
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles and Chapters contained in the Table of Contents attached
hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by this reference.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat, or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Trustees and the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to and ordered to file a
copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the BOARD OF TRUSTEES of the TOWN OF WEST SILOAM
SPRINGS, OKLAHOMA this 15th day of April, 2024.
                        /s/ Rhonda Wise
                        MAYOR
ATTEST: (Seal)
/s/ Laura Poteet
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
Approved as to form:
/s/ Municipal Attorney
MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   City ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “West Siloam Springs Town Code” or other
properly identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared
and inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may
be added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Town of West
Siloam Springs, Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Delaware, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies, or departments by title only, such as “Clerk/Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk/Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief,” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies, or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships, and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates, and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb, or any other public way in the city which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the city include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the city include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect.
   (B)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed hereinafter is
invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all
valid applications which are severable from the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   (A)   Reference to the statutes of the state shall mean the statutes as they
are now or as they may be amended.
   (B)   A reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain year also means the
comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution, or ordinance of the
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, as well as any amendments, are listed following
the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15,
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 4-102) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51 O.S.
§§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 108).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this code of ordinances or any ordinance of the town, an
act is prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or
misdemeanor, or wherever in said code of ordinances, the doing of any act is
required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code of ordinances or any such ordinance shall be punishable by a fine in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in §
32.99. Each day on which any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (B)   No penalty imposed by, and pursuant to, this code of ordinances shall
interfere with the right of the town, also to apply to the proper courts of the
state for a mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such
person, firm, or corporation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 9, Art. 3)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Municipal wards
   
11.02   Corporate boundaries map
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL WARDS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be five municipal wards within the corporate
boundaries of the town, the boundaries of each ward being deemed to be the
boundaries as shown on the most recent map of the town, which is recorded at
the office of the County Election Board in Jay, Oklahoma.
      (2)   There shall be one Trustee from each of the five municipal wards.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Art. 1, § 1)
   (B)   (1)   When new territory is annexed to the town, it shall become a
part of the ward or wards to which it is adjacent. The streets, boulevards, and
avenues named above shall be extended north, south, east, and west, as the case
may be, as ward boundaries, as new territory is annexed at the points where
said streets, boulevards, and avenues touch the town limits, so that the
extensions of said streets, boulevards, and avenues shall become a part of the
ward boundaries of territory annexed adjacent thereto.
      (2)   References to streets, boulevards, and avenues shall mean the
center lines thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 11.02 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES MAP.
   (A)   A map depicting the current corporate boundaries of the town shall be
maintained and displayed in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   This map shall reflect all current annexation and de-annexation
ordinances and orders, all plat and/or streets vacation orders, and all
official street names and shall represent the map of the corporate boundaries
of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Art. 2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   AGENCIES, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   FINANCE AND BUSINESS
      
34.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Time of regular meetings
   
30.02   Place of meeting
   
30.03   President; election; presiding officer
   
30.04   President and Board; oath required
   
30.05   Meetings; procedures
   
30.06   Powers
   
30.07   Resignation of a member
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the town shall hold a regular meeting at 6:00 p.m.
on the third Monday of each month; providing, that if such Monday falls on a
holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next day that is
not a holiday.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 3)
§ 30.02 PLACE OF MEETING.
   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town Hall
unless, in case of an emergency, the President of the Board designates another
place in the town for the holding of a special meeting; provided, that any
adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within the town designated by
the Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 4)
§ 30.03 PRESIDENT; ELECTION; PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The President of the Board of Trustees shall be elected by the
Board from among its members, and shall serve as Mayor, and shall serve until
the end of the term of one year unless he or she sooner dies, resigns, or is
removed by the Board of Trustees; and there shall be elected from among the
said Board a Vice President who shall serve as Vice Mayor whose term shall
correspond with that of the President of the Board.
      (2)   When the words MAYOR or CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER are used in the
code or in other ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the
President of the Board of Trustees unless another meaning is clearly indicated
by the context.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 5)
   (B)   The President shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify
to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. The
President shall also serve as Mayor and shall be recognized as head of the town
government for all ceremonial purposes and shall have such other powers,
duties, and functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance, including
without limitation, the right to reprimand, suspend (with or without pay), and/
or terminate employees of the town. The President shall have all powers,
rights, privileges, duties, and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the
right to vote on questions. During the absence, disability, or suspension of
the President, the Vice President shall serve as acting Mayor. When a vacancy
occurs in the office of the President, the Board shall elect another President
from among its members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 6)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT AND BOARD; OATH REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within five days after election, the President and the other members
of the Board of Trustees shall take and subscribe, before some person
authorized to administer the same, the usual oath or affirmation for the
faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices as prescribed by
the State Constitution.
   (B)   All officers appointed by the Board of Trustees of the town shall,
within five days after such appointment, take and subscribe to the oath of
office in the manner provided for by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 7)
Statutory reference:
   Oaths of office, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-103 and 8-104
§ 30.05 MEETINGS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The order of business at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Board
of Trustees shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Reading of minutes;
      (4)   Presentation of petitions, memorials, and other communications;
      (5)   Hearing of citizens;
      (6)   Presentation of claims and accounts;
      (7)   Reports of officers;
      (8)   Reports of standing committees;
      (9)   Reports of special committees;
      (10)   Unfinished business;
      (11)   Original motions, resolutions, or ordinances;
      (12)   Other problems related to municipal operations; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business at any meeting may be amended by a motion.
   (C)   A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   (D)   All voting shall be by a roll call of the Trustees by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer. All voting shall be by aye and nay and shall be taken on all
questions.
   (E)   All motions may be reduced to writing and shall be, if desired by the
President or any member of the Board, read by the presiding officer or Clerk/
Treasurer before the same shall be debated.
   (F)   All parliamentary questions shall be decided by the presiding officer.
   (G)   Any and all special committees shall be appointed by the presiding
officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 8)
§ 30.06 POWERS.
   (A)   All powers of a statutory town board of trustees as provided by law
shall be within the power of the Board of Trustees, including the determination
of matters of policy.
   (B)   Without limitation of the foregoing, the Board may:
      (1)   Appoint and remove, and confirm appointment of, designated town
officers and employees as provided by law or ordinance;
      (2)   Enact municipal legislation subject to limitations as may now or
hereafter be imposed by the State Constitution and law;
      (3)   Raise revenue, establish rates for services and taxes, make
appropriations, regulate salaries and wages, and all other fiscal affairs of
the town, subject to limitations as may now or hereafter be imposed by the
State Constitution and law;
      (4)   Inspect any and all books maintained by the Town Clerk/Treasurer;
      (5)   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department, or agency of
the town and investigate municipal affairs or authorize and provide for such
inquiries;
      (6)   Create, change, and abolish offices, departments, or agencies other
than those established by law; assign additional functions and duties to
offices, departments, and agencies established by this chapter; and define the
duties, powers, and privileges of all officers which are not defined by this
chapter; and
      (7)   Grant pardons for violations of municipal ordinances, including the
remission of fines and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 9)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Trustees, see 11 O.S. § 12-106
§ 30.07 RESIGNATION OF A MEMBER.
   The resignation of any member of the Board shall be addressed to the
President and is effective upon submittal unless a future date is specified. No
action by the Board of Trustees is necessary.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 2, § 10)
CHAPTER 31: AGENCIES, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Elections
   
31.01   Elective officers of the town
   
31.02   Town officers may be appointed; vote of electors required
Town Officers and Agencies
   
31.15   Town Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.16   Town Attorney
   
31.17   No Public Health Superintendent
   
31.18   Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment
   
31.19   Police Department
Civil Defense Organization
   
31.30   Purpose
   
31.31   Department of Emergency Management
   
31.32   Director; powers and duties
   
31.33   Director; authority
   
31.34   Director; duties during emergencies
Personnel
   
31.45   Officers and employees; number and classes; compensation
   
31.46   Certain personnel to be bonded
   
31.47   Continuation of officers after expiration of term
   
31.48   Personnel policies and procedures
   
31.49   Old-Age and Survivor’s insurance
   
31.50   Compensation of elected officials
   
31.51   Employee retirement system
Assistance to Employees Obtaining Job-Related Licenses and Certificates
   
31.65   Allocation of funds
   
31.66   Repayment
   
31.67   Costs
   
31.68   Written agreement require
   
Appendix A: Personnel Policy
ELECTIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIVE OFFICERS OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   In accordance with 11 O.S., the following officers of the town shall
be elected in odd-numbered years by the qualified electors of the town:
      (1)   One Trustee from each ward of the town; and
      (2)   Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The terms of the officials elected under this section shall begin on
the second Monday following their election, and they shall serve until their
successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   (1)   If vacancies occur in any of the offices herein enumerated for
the town, the Board of Trustees at such time may fill such vacancies by
appointment, but such appointment by the Board shall only be until the next
election, at which time the electors of the town may elect some person to fill
the unexpired term.
      (2)   If such vacancy has not been filled within 60 days after it occurs,
the governing body shall call for a special election to be held in the
municipality for the purpose of filling the vacancy for the duration of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   When a majority of governing body offices are vacant more than 60 days
before the beginning of the regular filing period for general municipal
elections, the remaining members of the governing body shall call for a special
election to be held in the municipality for the purpose of filling all vacant
offices for the remainder of their unexpired terms.
   (E)   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town shall not be governed by the
State Town Meeting Act, being 11 O.S. §§ 16-301 et seq., as a means of electing
its officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions.
   (F)   The town shall elect its officers and decide initiative and referendum
questions through elections conducted by the County Election Board, pursuant to
11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 31.02 TOWN OFFICERS MAY BE APPOINTED; VOTE OF ELECTORS REQUIRED.
   The Board of Trustees of the town may by ordinance provide for the
submission to a vote of the qualified electors of the town the question of
providing for the appointment by the Board of Trustees of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 1, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-101 et seq., 12-101 et seq., and 16-101
et seq.
TOWN OFFICERS AND AGENCIES
§ 31.15 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer, as an officer of the town, shall attend all
meetings of the Town Board of Trustees and keep a journal of the proceedings of
said Town Board.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall have custody of all documents, records,
and archives of the municipality, as well as be custodian of the municipal
seal.
   (C)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall attest and affix said seal to documents
as required by law or ordinance, and shall see that all ordinances passed are
kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall so keep all accounts as to show where
and from what sources all moneys paid have been derived, and to whom and when
such moneys or any part thereof have been paid. All books, accounts, and
vouchers shall at all times be subject to the examination of the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a general accounting system
for the municipal government.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 1, § 3)
   (F)   (1)   As permitted by 11 O.S. § 10-117(5), the person who serves as
Town Clerk/Treasurer may also perform additional administrative duties not
specified by state law as an employee of the Town. Said additional duties shall
be performed by the person serving as the Town Clerk/Treasurer or as otherwise
provided by motion or other action of the Board. The person serving as Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall perform the following additional duties on behalf of the
town:
         (a)   Oversee/manage office operations;
         (b)   Cross-train in all admin positions to fill in for office
employee as needed;
         (c)   Admin duties (open/read/distribute mail, send emails, create
files, send faxes, and/or work with IT or outside vendors as needed);
         (d)   Create purchase order;
         (e)   Receives invoices and pays bills;
         (f)   Website coordinator;
         (g)   Insurance coordinator;
         (h)   Benefits coordinator;
         (i)   Authority of credit card usage/bank records;
         (j)   Order office supplies (or shop for other supplies) as needed;
         (k)   Update Quickbooks with new employee info;
         (l)   Payroll duties;
         (m)   Work with grants to include researching, accepting, and
submitting grant information.
      (2)   The Mayor may assign duties in addition to those above to the
extent such additional duties comply with 11 O.S. § 10-117(5), but any change
in compensation must be approved by the Board. The pay period for performing
administrative duties shall be the same as for other municipal employees and
shall be paid each pay period the amount of $17 /hour for performing additional
administrative duties on behalf of the town. The salary for performing the
additional administrative duties shall not be subject to constitutional
restrictions. The person serving as Town Clerk-Treasurer may also perform
additional duties on behalf of the West Siloam Springs Municipal Authority, but
the performance of those duties shall by paid by the West Siloam Springs
Municipal Authority.
(Ord. 2023-07-01, passed 7-17-2023; Ord. 2025-05-01, passed 5-19-2025)
§ 31.16 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Town Attorney, who shall be a
person of good moral character, licensed to practice law in the state, who
shall be appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees by and with the
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Said Town Attorney shall be appointed for a term of one year. Said
year to begin and end on July 1 of each year or at any other time hereafter
fixed by law for the beginning of the fiscal year.
   (C)   Said Board of Trustees may leave said office vacant if, by order, it
finds there is no necessity for said Town Attorney. When said office is vacant,
said Board of Trustees shall have the authority and may employ a competent
attorney to represent the town as the case or occasion may deem necessary and
at such fee or fees that may be reasonable and may be agreed upon by such Board
of Trustees and said Town Attorney.
   (D)   He or she shall appear, prosecute, and defend all actions wherein the
town is a party, provided he or she shall be allowed his or her actual and
necessary traveling and hotel expense while outside the town on business for
the town, upon direction of the Board of Trustees, and this expense shall be in
addition to his or her regular compensation as fixed by the Board of Trustees
by resolution from time to time. He or she shall perform such other
professional services as may be required of him or her by the Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   He or she shall draw such ordinances as may be required of him or her
by the Board of Trustees, or by any committee thereof. He or she shall draw the
leases, deeds, and papers connected with the Finance Department and all
contracts for any of the other departments of the town when so required by the
Board of Trustees.
   (F)   When so requested to do so by the President of the Board of Trustees,
Police Judge, or the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney shall appear in police
court and prosecute complaints for offenses against the town ordinances, but
shall not be required to prosecute such actions unless the same are instituted
upon a complaint of some town officer.
   (G)   The Town Attorney shall keep a proper record of expenses and a
register of all actions prosecuted or defended in courts of record, in which
the town may be a party, and all proceedings had therein, which shall at all
times be open to the inspection of the Board of Trustees.
   (H)   He or she shall not be required to attend regularly with the Board of
Trustees, but shall, upon request of the Board of Trustees, perform such duties
as may be required of him or her.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 6)
§ 31.17 NO PUBLIC HEALTH SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There shall be no Public Health Superintendent as such, as all matters
pertaining to the public health shall be done under the office of the County
Health Department and the State Health Department.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may request the County Board of Health or the
State Board of Health to act in regard to any matter that may involve the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 8)
§ 31.18 PLANNING COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town hereby appoints members of a
Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment for the planning and enforcement of
zoning regulations within the town.
   (B)   The Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment shall be composed of
five members. The members shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Town Board of Trustees. Each member shall serve for a period of three years.
(Ord. 17-9-1, passed 9-20-2017; Ord. 17-9-2, passed 9-20-2017)
§ 31.19 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the
Chief of Police appointed by the Board of Trustees for an indefinite term, and
removable by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is an officer of the town and has supervision
and control of the Police Department and all police officers and officers of
the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 5, § 31)
   (B)   (1)   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest
on view or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of
the town; to suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may
come to its knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants,
writs, executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them;
to apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by
law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and, in all respects to
perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
      (2)   The Police Department has charge of and operates the city jail.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 5, § 32)
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
§ 31.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to create an emergency management
organization for the town to prepare for, and to function in the event of,
emergencies which endanger the lives and property of the citizens of this
jurisdiction. It shall be the duty of the emergency management organization to
protect the health, safety, and lives of the citizens of the town, and to
protect both public and private property and property rights, and to perform
all functions necessary to fulfill the obligations imposed herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 9, § 52)
§ 31.31 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   There is hereby established, under the executive branch of government for
the town, a Department of Emergency Management, which shall consist of:
   (A)   An Emergency Management Director, who shall be appointed by, report
directly to, and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor of the town; and
   (B)   Emergency Management Volunteers, who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Emergency Management Director, to support the efforts and purpose of the
Emergency Management Department as established herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 9, § 53)
§ 31.32 DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Director shall be the executive head of the
Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the Emergency Management programs of the town. The Emergency Management
Director may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or
her duties. It shall be the duty of the Emergency Management Director, as soon
as practical after appointment, to develop an efficient organization designed
to carry out the purposes set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Director shall be empowered with the
necessary powers and authority to form committees and other bodies as may be
necessary to consummate the Emergency Management Department. The Emergency
Management Director shall further have the duties and responsibilities to
coordinate the actions of all emergency response organizations and the use of
available resources whether such activities or resources belong to this
jurisdiction or are those provided through mutual aid agreements with other
organizations and/or jurisdictions. Such activities shall include, but not be
limited to, coordination with Fire, Police, Emergency Medical Services, Public
Works, and Mutual Aid Departments.
   (C)   The Emergency Management Director will coordinate and cooperate with
Emergency Management organizations of other government entities, including the
State Department of Civil Emergency Management (ODCEM), and as necessary, the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 9, § 54)
§ 31.33 DIRECTOR; AUTHORITY.
   The Emergency Management Director is hereby authorized to formulate written
plans, collect and organize pertinent information, and maintain written records
thereof, to govern the functions of the Emergency Management Department.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 9, § 55)
§ 31.34 DIRECTOR; DUTIES DURING EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of an emergency or disaster, the Emergency Management Director
shall be empowered with the authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to emergency management, for the purposes of carrying out the duties
and responsibilities set forth herein. In carrying out his or her
responsibilities to protect the population of this jurisdiction, the Emergency
Management Director shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental organizations, including emergency management organizations beyond
the jurisdictional boundaries of this entity.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 9, § 56)
PERSONNEL
§ 31.45 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; NUMBER AND CLASSES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board, by motion, resolution, or ordinance may regulate the
number and classes of offices and positions of employment in the various
departments, offices, and agencies of the town government, and may determine or
regulate the compensation to be paid to officers and employees.
      (2)   Compensation not otherwise provided for shall be at the prevailing
minimum wage rate.
   (B)   Neither the Municipal Judge, nor any other officer or employee of the
town government, may receive as compensation any fee of any kind except may be
specifically provided by ordinance passed hereafter; and all fees and other
money collected for the town by an officer or employee shall be paid to the
Town Clerk/Treasurer to be deposited as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 10, § 58)
§ 31.46 CERTAIN PERSONNEL TO BE BONDED.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer and the Town Marshal shall, within ten
days after their election or appointment, give bonds payable to the town, in
such amounts as the Board of Trustees shall direct, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties as required by law.
      (2)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may require other
officers and employees to be bonded.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 10, § 59)
Statutory reference:
   Bonded personnel, see 11 O.S. § 8-105
§ 31.47 CONTINUATION OF OFFICERS AFTER EXPIRATION OF TERM.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 11, § 60)
§ 31.48 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All employees of the town/authority shall adhere to the Personnel
Policies attached to the end of this chapter as
Appendix A, as the same may be amended from time to time by a majority vote of
the members of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 12)
   (B)   (1)   Leave with pay may be granted to an employee in the event of a
death of an immediate family member. Such leave will be three days (24 hours).
Additional time without pay may be granted with the approval of the department
heads.
      (2)   The IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined as spouse, children, step-children,
parents, step-mother, step-father, brothers, sisters, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son- in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild,
step-grandchild, or grandparent.
(Ord. 17-12-1, passed 12-28-2017; Ord. 2025-06-01, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 31.49 OLD-AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to
extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law or ordinance, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the System of Federal
Old-Age and Survivors’ Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security
Act and amendments thereto, including Pub. Law No. 734, 81st Congress, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
   (B)   In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the town shall take
such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Art. 13)
§ 31.50 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Elected officials of the town shall receive a per diem or payment of
compensation for actual attendance at each regular meeting of the Town Board of
Trustees as follows.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Elected officials of the town shall receive a per
diem or payment of compensation for actual attendance at each regular meeting
of the Town Board of Trustees as follows.
 
Clerk/Treasurer $150 per meeting
Mayor           $500 per meeting
Vice-Mayor      $450 per meeting
Other Trustees  $150 per meeting
 
      (2)   Special meetings. Elected officials of the town shall receive a per
diem or payment of compensation for actual attendance at each special meeting
of the Town Board of Trustees as follows.
 
Clerk/Treasurer $200 per meeting
Mayor           $550 per meeting
Vice-Mayor      $500 per meeting
Other Trustees  $200 per meeting
 
   (B)   The mandates of this section shall become effective on September 1,
2022, and shall remain in effect until amended by a majority vote of the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   No sitting elected official shall receive a change in compensation
during his or her current term of office at the time of the passage and
approval of this section, but any official that is sworn in for a new term
after the effective date of this section shall be entitled to receive the
compensation set forth herein immediately upon being sworn in for any term of
office commencing after the effective date.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 31.51 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state, and for
the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of
town employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized, created, established, and approved and adopted, effective as of
July 1, 2022, the amended and restated plan designated “Employee Retirement
System of the Town of West Siloam Springs & West Siloam Springs Municipal
Authority, Oklahoma, Defined Contribution Plan,” (hereinafter called System).
   (B)   A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the
persons entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such fund
shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the town. Such
fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar
funds of other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the state as
a part of the State Municipal Retirement Fund in accordance with the trust
agreement of the State Municipal Retirement Fund, a public trust. The town
shall hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay
over and transfer the same to the State Municipal Retirement Fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the County Excise Board.
   (C)    (1)   The town, and the Town Municipal Trust Authority, is hereby
authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the establishment, operation,
and administration of the System, and to appropriate and pay the same. In
addition, the town, and the Town Municipal Trust Authority, is hereby
authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to
employee contributions to maintain the System and the fund in accordance with
the provisions of the Defined Contribution Plan.
      (2)   Any appropriation so made to maintain the System and fund shall be
for deferred wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of
operation and administration to be transferred to the trustees of the State
Municipal Retirement Fund for such purposes and shall be paid into the fund
when available, to be duly transferred to the State Municipal Retirement Fund.
   (D)   The Mayor and Town Clerk/Treasurer be and they are each hereby
authorized and directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall
constitute an original) the System instrument, and to do all other acts and
things necessary, advisable, and proper to put said System and related trust
into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under I.R.C. §§ 401(a) and 501(a), being 26
U.S.C. §§ 401(a) and 501(a). The System is hereby ratified and confirmed in all
respects.
(Ord. 2022-07-02, passed 7-18-2022)
ASSISTANCE TO EMPLOYEES OBTAINING JOB-RELATED LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES
§ 31.65 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   So long as sufficient funds exist, and so long as the expenditures are
authorized by the approved budget for the relevant fiscal year, supervisors,
department heads, and directors of the town and the Town Municipal Authority
(“Authority”) may allocate, encumber, and spend municipal funds, up to $5,000,
without prior Board approval, toward the cost of obtaining a job-related
license or certification for employees with job duties that require a license
or certification, but on the condition that the employee promises in writing to
repay the licensing costs (as defined in §
31.67).
(Ord. 2022-09-02, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 31.66 REPAYMENT.
   (A)   Every employee obtaining a job-related license at the expense of the
town or the Authority, as provided in this subchapter, agrees to reimburse the
town or Authority for licensing costs subject to the following exceptions.
      (1)   For the purposes of this subchapter, LICENSE DATE shall refer to
the date the employee becomes licensed or certified pursuant to this
subchapter.
      (2)   Every employee who obtains a license under this subchapter promises
to continue his or her employment with the employer for no less than two years
from the date the employee obtained the license or certification. Any employee
that remains employed in good standing for no less than two years from the date
of licensure or certification under this subchapter shall have no obligation to
repay licensing costs.
      (3)   Every employee who remains an employee in good standing for more
than one year, but less than two years from the date of licensure or
certification, is obligated to repay one-half, or 50%, of the total amount of
licensing costs advanced by the town or Authority according to the terms of
division (B) below.
      (4)   Subject to divisions (A)(5) and (A)(6) below, if an employee
obtains a license under this subchapter, and that employee’s employment is
terminated, voluntarily or involuntarily, before the passing of one year from
the date of licensure, that employee shall be obligated to repay 100% of the
licensing costs advanced by employer according to the terms of division (B)
below.
      (5)   If an employee’s employment is involuntarily terminated, and that
employee received a license or certification under this subchapter, said
employee shall not be obligated to reimburse licensing costs unless the
termination was “for cause,” as determined by majority vote of the Board of
Trustees.
      (6)   The employee shall not be obligated to repay licensing costs if
employment terminates by reason of death or disability.
   (B)   (1)   By agreeing to obtain a license at the expense of the town or
the Authority under this subchapter, and subject to the exceptions in division
(A) above, said employee promises and agrees to repay the entire amount of
licensing costs advanced by the town or Authority by no later than 30 days from
the last date of employment. Failure to repay licensing costs in full within 30
days of the last date of employment will result in accrual of interest at the
rate of 18% per annum.
      (2)   By agreeing to obtain a license at the expense of the town or the
Authority under this subchapter, said employee consents to the jurisdiction and
venue of the District Court of the county in any legal action initiated to
recover repayment for licensing costs.
      (3)   By agreeing to obtain a license at the expense of the town or the
Authority under this subchapter, said employee understands and agrees he or she
is liable for all costs, expenses, and attorney’s fees incurred by the town or
Authority resulting from employee breaching his or her obligation to repay
licensing costs.
(Ord. 2022-09-02, passed 9-19-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.67 COSTS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, LICENSING COSTS shall include the
following:
   (A)   Class tuition;
   (B)   Meals/per diem;
   (C)   All wages paid to the employee while employee was obtaining the job-
related license and not directly performing his or her job duties to the town
or Authority;
   (D)   Travel and boarding expenses; and
   (E)    Any such other expenses as agreed in writing pursuant to §
31.68.
(Ord. 2022-09-02, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 31.68 WRITTEN AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   Before an employee agrees to receive licensing services at the expense of
the town or Municipal Authority, said employee shall receive and sign an
agreement having the same substantial form as the following template:
Pursuant to §§
31.65 through
31.68 of the West Siloam Springs Code of Ordinances, this Agreement is entered into
between _______________(“Employee”) and Town of West Siloam Springs/West Siloam
Springs Municipal Authority (“Employer”) on this ________ day of _________, 20___.
WHEREAS, Employee desires to obtain a license or certification related to his/her
job with Employer;
WHEREAS, Employee desires to receive a job-related license or certification, and
Employer desires to assist Employee with the costs of obtaining job-related
licensing or certification; and
WHEREAS Employer agrees to pay for Employee’s Licensing Costs (as defined below),
subject to Employee’s promise to repay Employer for Licensing Costs;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual covenants
herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is acknowledged, the Parties do agree as follows:
1.   Employee agrees to participate in the processes required to obtain the
following license or certification; (“License”) [e.g., “CDL”].
2.   Employer agrees to pay Employee his/her regular wages during the time period
Employee is engaged in the process of obtaining the License (“Licensing Period”)
even though Employee cannot directly perform his/her duties to the Town/Authority
during the Licensing Period.
3.   The Parties understand and agree that for the purposes of this Agreement,
“Licensing Costs,” shall include:
a.   Class tuition and materials;
b.   Meals/Per diem;
c.   All wages paid to Employee during the Licensing Period;
d.   Travel and boarding expenses; and
e.   Any such other expenses as agreed in writing herein.
4.   Employee agrees to repay Employer for Licensing Costs as follows:
a.   License Date. “License Date” shall refer to the date Employee becomes licensed
or certified as contemplated in this Agreement.
b.   Two-Year Employment Obligation. Employee understands and agrees he/she is
obligated to continue employment with Employer for no less than two (2) years from
the License Date. Employee shall have no obligation to repay Employer for Licensing
Costs upon completing two (2) years of good-faith employment from the License Date.
c.   Employed for More Than One Year But less Than Two Years from License Date.
Employee understands if his/her employment terminates, voluntarily or involuntarily,
after the passing of one (1) year from the License Date, but less than two (2) years
from the License Date, Employee promises and agrees to repay Employer an amount
equal to 50% of the Licensing Costs no later than thirty (30) days from Employee’s
last date of employment.
d.   Employed for Less Than One Year from License Date. Employee understands,
promises and agrees that, subject to subparagraphs (e)-(f) below, if Employee’s
employment terminates, voluntarily or involuntarily, before the passing of one (1)
year from the License Date, Employee shall be obligated to repay one hundred percent
(100%) of the Licensing Costs according to the terms of §
31.66(B).
e.   Involuntarily Termination of Employment. If Employee’s employment is terminated
involuntarily but “without cause,” Employee shall not be obligated to reimburse
Licensing Costs. Whether termination was “for cause” or “without cause” shall be
determined by majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
f.   Death or Disability. Employee shall not be obligated to repay Licensing Costs
if employment terminates by reason of death or disability.
5.   Employee understands and agrees that failing to repay Licensing Costs in full
by or before the passing of thirty (30) days from Employee’s last date of employment
will result in accrual of interest at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum.
6.   Employee understands and agrees that in addition to Employee’s obligation to
repay Licensing Costs, Employee shall be responsible for all costs, expenses, and
attorney’s fees incurred by Employer that result from Employee’s breach of this
Agreement.
7.   Employee understands and agrees that Employee’s failure to repay Licensing
Costs according to the terms of this Agreement may result in Employer initiating a
legal action against Employee seeking judgment for damages for repayment of
Licensing Costs, interest, expenses, and attorney’s fees.
8.   Employee understands and agrees that in the event Employee becomes obligated to
repay Licensing Costs, Employer shall deliver a statement to Employee, either in
person or to Employee’s address as stated in Employee’s personnel records,
describing the amount of salary/wages paid to Employee during the Licensing Period
and all other Licensing Costs expended by Employer under this Agreement The
statement shall state, “Repayment in the amount of $____ is due in full by or before
[date 30 days from date of termination/resignation], and failure to repay Licensing
Costs in full by said date may cause a legal action to be filed against you in the
District Court in and for Delaware County, State of Oklahoma, and judgment may be
rendered for the amount of Licensing Costs, interests, expenses, and attorney’s
fees.”
9.   By entering this Agreement, Employee consents to the jurisdiction and venue of
the District Court of Delaware County, State of Oklahoma, for any legal action
arising from a breach of this Agreement.
10.   Employee understands and agrees that he/she is an “at will” employee, that
this Agreement is not an express or implied contract for employment, and that this
Agreement shall not change the at-will nature of Employee’s employment Employee
furthermore understands and agrees that this Agreement is for the sole purpose of
establishing the terms and conditions governing Employer’s agreement to advance
Licensing Costs on behalf of Employee and Employee’s obligation to repay Licensing
Costs.
11.   Employee agrees and acknowledges he/she was advised of the right to seek
advice from independent counsel, and Employee’s signature below certifies that
Employee either sought independent counsel before signing this Agreement or made the
informed decision to waive his/her right to do so.
12.   Employee certifies that prior to signing this Agreement, Employee had an
opportunity to review the municipal laws governing this Agreement, namely, §§
31.65 through
31.68 of the West Siloam Springs Code of Ordinances.
13.   By his/her signature below, Employee certifies he/she understands terms of
this Agreement and the terms of §§
31.65 through
31.68 of the West Siloam Springs Code of Ordinances.
14.   ADDITIONAL TERMS (if any):
__________________________________________________________
SIGNATURES
EMPLOYER:
 
___________________________________________
Town of West Siloam Springs/
West Siloam Springs Municipal Authority
By: ____________________________________
Its: ____________________________________
EMPLOYEE:
_________________________________________
[employee’s printed name]
WITNESS:
_________________________________________
[witness’ printed name]
(Ord. 2022-09-02, passed 9-19-2022)
APPENDIX A: PERSONNEL POLICY
TOWN OF WEST SILOAM SPRINGS, OKLAHOMA AND
WEST SILOAM SPRINGS MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY
PERSONNEL POLICIES
SECTION 1: HIRING
SECTION 2: NEPOTISM
SECTION 3: HOURS OF WORK
SECTION 4: PAY PERIODS
SECTION 5: PROMOTION AND TRANSFERS
SECTION 6: EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND ETHICS
SECTION 7: OFF DUTY EMPLOYMENT
SECTION 8: POLITICAL ACTIVITY
SECTION 9: SAFETY
SECTION 10: PUBLIC RELATIONS
SECTION 11: VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
SECTION 12: TOWN PROPERTY
SECTION 13: POLICE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES
SECTION 14: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION 15: DISCIPLINARY ACTION
SECTION 16: BENEFITS
SECTION 16: PTO (PAID TIME OFF)
SECTION 17: BACKGROUNDCHECKS FOR APPLICANTS
SECTION 18: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSE
SECTION 19: DRUG TESTING
SECTION 20: HARASSMENT & DISCRIMINATION
   The Town of West Siloam Springs (Town) and the West Siloam Springs Municipal
Authority (Authority) are at-will employers. This means we recognize that you
retain the option, as does the Town and the Authority, of ending your
employment with us at any given time, with or without notice and with or
without cause. As such, your employment with us is at-will and neither this
handbook nor any other oral or written representations by any Town or Authority
official or employee may be considered a contract for any specific period of
time.
AS AMENDED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY BOARD OF
TRUSTEES (JUNE 16, 2025)
SECTION 1: HIRING
   1.1      The Town and the Authority are equal opportunity employers.
Appointment for employment shall be conducted on the basis of merit and fitness
for the position. It is the policy of the Town and the Authority to comply with
the nondiscriminatory provision of all Oklahoma State and Federal regulations
including the Equal Opportunity Act of 1972.
   1.2      The number of employees, job title, job classifications as well as
compensation of all positions shall be established by the Town Board of
Trustees and/or the Authority’s Board of Trustees.
   1.3      Supervisors of employees of the Town/Authority shall have the
authority to hire temporary status employees for a temporary employment period
of up to ninety (90) days. At or before the conclusion of temporary employment
period. The Town/Authority Board of Trustees shall vote on whether to retain
the such temporary employee. The Board of Trustees of the Town and/or of the
Authority shall hire all full time permanent employees. However, th Town/
Authority Clerk may hire part-time or summer help as required without prior
approval of the Town/Authority Board.
SECTION 2: NEPOTISM
   2.1      It shall be the policy of the Town and of the Authority to comply
with the State of Oklahoma’s regulations in regards to the employment of any
person related to an elected official. In addition, no person may be employed
to fill a position in which he/she is required to report either directly or
indirectly to any member of his/her family. No individual may be hired to fill
a position if any member of his/her family is already employed within that
department. For purposes of this section members of family includes any person
who is related within three degrees either by bloodline or marriage.
SECTION 3: HOURS OF WORK
   3.1      Normal work period is forty hours per week. Hourly employees shall
be compensated at the rate of one and one-half times their hourly rate for all
hours worked over forty per week. Police officers shall be eligible for
overtime in the event they are required to work in excess of 86 hours required
by Police/Firemen regulations, subject to the discretion of the employee’s
supervisor.
Sick pay, vacation pay, or any other paid leave shall not be considered in
determining overtime pay.
Because the Town of West Siloam Springs necessarily operates under the confines
of budgetary system, overtime is not encouraged. Work in excess of the
regularly scheduled hours must receive prior approval from the department head
if feasible and will need to be signed off by the department head.
Comp time instead of overtime pay will be allowed for all full time employees.
Comp time will be calculated as hour for hour and should be taken within two
weeks of time accrued.
All employees are expected to report promptly and remain on the job until
quitting time, with the department head outlying the scope of the day’s work
for that department. If any employee anticipates being tardy or absent, he/she
shall notify his/her immediate supervisor as soon as possible. Any employee who
is habitually late will be written up for policy violation.
All employees will receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay when they are called
out to work.
SECTION 4: PAY PERIODS
   4.1      Pay periods for Town/Authority employees are Bi-Weekly. Change in
rate of compensation for all employees will be approved by the Board of
Trustees and shall become effective at the beginning of the next pay period
after approval.
   4.2      Employees will be evaluated annually.
SECTION 5: PROMOTION AND TRANSFERS
   5.1      Promotions and transfers to different departments shall be
considered by the Board of Trustees upon recommendation of the department
heads. Persons promoted or transferred shall meet the minimum entry
requirements of the new position and have a satisfactory performance record.
All promotions and transfers must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
SECTION 6: EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND ETHICS
   6.1      Employees of the Town and/or the Authority are expected to conduct
themselves in a manner which is honest and is conductive to promote public
trust and confidence. Actions or conditions which do not conform to appropriate
conduct and for which disciplinary action is warranted include, but is not
limited to the following:
   1.   Use of alcoholic beverages and illicit drugs are not allowed on Town/
Authority property or in Town/Authority vehicles. Their possession or use by an
employee during working hours will be cause for immediate termination.
   2.   Misrepresentation of facts on employment application or during
employment interview.
   3.   Persistent insubordination, negligence, and incompetence, or performing
subversive acts designed to undermine employee morale.
   4.   Abuse of Town/Authority funds, supplies or equipment. Smoking, vaping
or drug use of tobacco of any kind or form in Town/Authority Buildings and
vehicles while transporting an inmate.
   5.   Unauthorized absence: Leaving the work place without permission.
   6.   Soliciting or accepting gifts or gratuity as a condition for performing
assigning duties.
   7.   Fighting while on duty, except in self-defense.
   8.   Engaging in “HORSEPLAY” or playing cards on Town/Authority property
during duty hours.
   9.   Repeated convictions or misdemeanor charges.
   10.   Conviction of or confession to a felony charge.
   11.   Any other offense prohibited by law or considered prejudicial to good
order and discipline.
   12.   Employees are prohibited from texting or making use of electronic mail
functions while the vehicle is in motion. This prohibition includes the time
waiting for a traffic signal to change.
   13.   Employees are prohibited from texting or making use of electronic mail
functions for personal use during work hours, unless there is an emergency.
SECTION 7: OFF DUTY EMPLOYMENT
   7.1      Holding a second job while in the employment of the Town/Authority
is not encouraged. An emergency manpower situation may occur at any time and
every employee is subject to call.
   7.2      Employees are expected to devote their full time and attention to
the business of the Town/Authority during regular working hours, therefore
employees are prohibited from engaging in any conduct which diverts his/her
time or the Town/Authority’s assets in connection with any outside employment
or personal activity.
   7.3      Employees injured during off duty employment will not be eligible
for workmen’s compensation.
SECTION 8: POLITICAL ACTIVITY
   8.1      Town/Authority employees are encouraged to be active in, and
informed about the politics and to exercise their right to vote freely at every
election. However, to ensure nonpartisan public service employees may not:
   1.   Use official authority or position to benefit any candidate.
   2.   Solicit funds or distribute campaign material while on duty.
   3.   Display campaign material on Town/Authority property or vehicles.
   4.   Use Town/Authority offices, supplies or equipment for political
purposes.
SECTION 9: SAFETY
   9.1      Job safety requires the use of good judgment and the practice of
good habits. The following rules should be followed by all employees to ensure
their safety and well-being while at work.
   1.   Follow all safety rules and regulations of your department.
   2.   File a written report to your supervisor concerning every accident when
it occurs.
   3.   Report any unsafe practices or conditions to your supervisor.
   4.   Be familiar with and use all safeguards on any equipment used.
   5.   Use safety glasses and earplugs when called for.
SECTION 10: PUBLIC RELATIONS
   10.1   As an employee of the Town/Authority you have the responsibility to
serve the citizens of West Siloam Springs, therefore, you should be courteous
and polite in all dealings with the public. The impressions made in your
contact with the public helps them to form their opinion as to the
effectiveness of the Town/Authority Government and personnel as well as the
general efficiency with which each department is operated.
   10.2   When not certain of the correct answer to any question, you should
obtain such information or refer the question to someone who can give the
correct answer. It is better to admit lack of knowledge than to give an
incorrect answer. Caution must be emphasized when giving information to the
public or the media. The usual procedure with the media would be to refer them
to the Mayor or Town Vice Mayor/Authority Vice-Chairperson.
SECTION 11: VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
   11.1   In order to comply with the policies of the Town/Authority’s
insurance carrier, the following procedures should be followed carefully when
an employee is involved in an accident while operating Town/Authority vehicles
or equipment.
         1.   Notify supervisor.
         2.   Contact the Oklahoma Highway Patrol to investigate the accident.
If the OHP is not available the supervisor will appoint an investigator.
         3.   Prepare a complete, written report of the accident and submit to
your Department Head as soon as possible.
         4.   Employees shall immediately be subject to drug and/or alcohol
test.
SECTION 12: TOWN/AUTHORITY PROPERTY
   12.1   As a Town/Authority employee, your job requires the use of supplies
and equipment, all of which are public property. You must be conscientious and
use these materials wisely and for the purpose they were intended. Carelessness
and wanton destruction of the property, theft or misappropriation of Town/
Authority property will be cause for dismissal.
   12.2   Use of Town Owned Vehicles: Employees issued a Town owned vehicle for
use in performance of their duties and/or day to day activities shall NOT
permit unauthorized persons in said vehicle without their Department Head
supervisor approval. Town officials, Department Heads or employees without
Department Head supervision use by such unauthorized persons shall be approved
by the Mayor or his/her designee. Unauthorized persons shall include, but not
be limited to, spouse, children, significant other, family and friends.
Unauthorized persons shall NOT include transportation of prisoners by law
enforcement officers, assistance to members of the public in times of emergency
or distress (vehicle wreck or difficulties, weather extremes, etc.) nor to
engineers or contractors inspecting a job site with Town employees and/or
officials.
SECTION 13: POLICE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES
   13.1   The Chief of Police may designate the use of Police vehicles.
   13.2   Officers on duty may cross the County and State boundary line in his/
her vehicle when called upon to assist in the apprehension of a person in
violation of the law.
   13.3   The officer on duty may take his/her vehicle across the State line
into Siloam Springs, AR. to obtain a meal.
SECTION 14: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
   14.1   A grievance is defined as cause of distress felt to afford reason for
complaint or resistance. Grievance may be based on any valid problem from
specific work conditions to a protest of disciplinary actions. The following
procedures should be followed by an employee wishing to file a grievance.
         1.   The aggrieved employee shall submit in writing the details of the
grievance to his/her immediate supervisor within three working days of the
incident. If the grievance is unresolved by the employee's supervisor, or if
the employee is not satisfied with the action or decision of his/her
supervisor, the grievance will be brought before the Town/Authority Board of
Trustees at the next scheduled regular meeting of the Town/Authority Board of
Trustees. Town Employees shall use GRIEVANCE FORM - 1 attached to the end of
these Personnel Policies. Authority employees shall use GRIEVANCE FORM - 2
attached to the end of these Personnel Policies. Police Department employees
shall use GRIEVANCE FORM - 3 attached to the end of these Personnel Policies.
         2.   For Town/Authority employees, no grievance shall be considered
unless submitted in accordance with these procedures and upon the appropriate
form.
         3.   For Police Department employees, no grievance shall be considered
unless submitted with these procedures, the internal procedures of the West
Siloam Springs Police Department (as updated from time to time on Lexipol), and
upon the appropriate form.
         4.   Supervisors and department heads shall make grievance forms
readily available to the employees of his or her department.
SECTION 15: DISCIPLINARY ACTION
   15.1   Disciplinary action may be instigated whenever an offense occurs. The
action may consist of a verbal reprimand, a written reprimand, suspension or
termination.
         1.   Verbal Reprimand: The verbal reprimand shall be given to the
employee, detailing the employee’s alleged misconduct without causing any
written record to become a part of the employee’s personnel file.
         2.   Written Reprimand: The written reprimand shall be given to the
employee, detailing the employee’s alleged misconduct. The written reprimand
shall become a part of the employee’s personal file.
         3.   Suspension with or without pay.
         4.   Termination.
SECTION 16: BENEFITS
   16.1   The Town/Authority pays the employers one-half of all employees FICA
& Medicare taxes as required by law. Additionally, the Town/Authority provides
workman’s compensation insurance and unemployment insurance for all Town/
Authority employees.
   16.2   Compensated leaves are provided to full-time employees.
Vacation Leave: After one (1) year of continuous service one (1) week (42 hours
for law enforcement employees and 40 hours for all other employees) of paid
vacation leave is authorized. Between three (3) and (9) years of continuous
service (2) two weeks (84 hours for law enforcement employees and 80 hours for
all other employees) of paid vacation leave is authorized. After ten (10) years
of continuous service and thereafter three (3) weeks (126 hours for law
enforcement employees and 120 hours for all other employees) of paid vacation
leave per year is authorized.
Vacation leave accrued in accordance with the above schedule may not be taken
in advance, but must be taken within one year of being accrued. Vacation time
not taken within the year time frame will be lost, however, if employee cannot
take his/her vacation time in the allotted time frame payment for all unused
vacation will be paid within the next regularly scheduled paycheck for the pay-
period in which the anniversary date falls. Vacation time not taken within the
year time frame will be cashed , however, if an employee cannot take his/her
vacation time in the allotted time frame, part time frame, payment for all
unused vacation will be paid within the next regularly scheduled paycheck for
the pay period in which the anniversary date falls. Vacation time may also be
cashed out anytime after being earned upon two weeks advance written request
from the employee.
Earned vacation leave will be granted whenever possible upon request by the
employee. However, due to work schedules and the requirements of the Town/
Authority, vacations must be scheduled to ensure that an adequate workforce is
available. Employees are encouraged to schedule their desired vacation time
with the appropriate Department Head well in advance.
   16.3   Holidays: The Town/Authority allows for paid holidays for full time
employees as described below.
Employees are required to work their regularly scheduled work day the day
before and the day after in order to be eligible for holiday pay. Some
positions will be required to work on holidays.
If the employee works the holiday then they will be paid for the amount of
hours worked times two.
If the employee is not scheduled to work they will receive 8 hours holiday pay
as follows: 12 hours for law enforcement employees and 8 hours for all other
employees.
If the employee is off because of the holiday they will also receive 8 hours
holiday pay.
If the employee is on workman’s comp they will be paid for 8 hours of holiday
pay.
Paid holidays are as follow:
1.   New Year’s Day-January 1st
2.   President’s Day-3rd Monday in February
3.   Good Friday-Friday before Easter Sunday
4.   Memorial Day- Last Monday in May
5.   Juneteenth-June 19
6.   Independence Day- July 4th
7.   Labor Day- First Monday in September
8.   Indigenous Peoples’ Day/Columbus Day-2nd Monday in October
9.   Thanksgiving Day -Fourth Thursday in November & Friday after
10.   Christmas Day- December 25th & Day before or After (determined annually)
12.   Birthday or floating day (employees’ discretion)
The holiday’s that are determined annually will be done by the Town/Authority
Clerk.
   16.4   PAID TIME OFF. Employees will accumulate two hours of PTO time per
pay period, commencing ninety (90) days after employment.
PTO hours can only be used in one hour increments.
PTO hours can be accumulated up to 240 hours.
PTO hours may only be used by the employee who earned them.
Employees who are separated from service will not be paid for accumulated PTO
hours if they have less than two (2) years of service. Employees who are
separated from service will be paid one-half of their accumulated PTO hours if
they have more than two (2) years of service with the Town/Authority. Employees
who are separated from service will be paid all accumulated PTO hours if they
have more than (10) years of service with the Town/Authority.
   16.5   Jury Duty: Employees will be granted leave with pay for the purpose
of participating in judicial proceedings, whether as a subpoenaed witness or
for jury upon submitting proof of the requirement for his/her presence to
Department Head.
   16.6   Leave with pay may be granted to an employee in the event of a death
of an immediate family member. Such leave will be thirty-six (36) hours for law
enforcement employees and twenty-four (24) hours for all other employees.
Additional time without pay may be granted with the approval of the department
heads.
The immediate family is defined as: Spouse, Children, Parents, Brothers,
Sisters, Grandchild, Grandparent, Father-in-law, Mother-in- law, Brother-in-
law, Sister-in-law, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Step Children, Step Parent,
Step Grand Children.
The term “Step Children, Step Parent and Step Grand Children,” shall mean; a
person who is in an active marriage with an immediate family member.
Retirement is provided by the Town/Authority to the employee after 90 days of
full-time employment. The Town/Authority contributes at the rate of 3% and the
employee’s rate is also a mandatory 3%. The employee may contribute more if
they choose to do so.
Non-Compensated Leaves:
Unpaid maternity leave: A total of two months of unpaid maternity leave in
addition to any vacation or sick leave to which the employed is entitled.
Unpaid Military leave: Military leave shall be granted to individuals as a
leave of absence without pay in accordance with Federal Law.
SECTION 17: BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR APPLICANTS
   17.1   Background checks will be conducted on all future applicants as a
precondition of employment.
   17.2   The Chief of Police or Asst. Chief will conduct, review, and approve
background checks.
   17.3   An application of employment with the Town/Authority shall constitute
authorization for a background check for an applicant of employment.
   17.4   Any individuals who have been convicted of serious crimes, or who
have been identified on any abuse registry, or who have backgrounds deemed
inappropriate by Town/Authority officials, the post-job offer screening process
will be terminated, and the applicant will not be considered for employment.
SECTION 18: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSE
   18.1   Any application with the Town/Authority Water, Sewer or Street
Department shall obtain a commercial driver’s license (CDL) within one year of
hire if such a license is needed to carry out their duties as an employee of
the Town/Authority Water, Sewer or Street. Such employee shall not be permitted
to drive equipment requiring a CDL for operation until a CDL has been obtained.
   18.2   A failure to obtain the CDL within the prescribed time limits will be
grounds for discipline including verbal reprimand; written reprimand;
suspension; or termination of employment.
SECTION 19: DRUG TESTING (Revised December 21, 2020) DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE
WORKPLACE POLICY
   19.1   PURPOSE: The Town/Authority of West Siloam Springs considers its
employees to be its most valuable resource and is concerned about the health,
safety, wellbeing, and satisfactory work performance of all employees. The use,
abuse, and dependence on alcohol, drugs or other chemical substances can
seriously affect the health of employees, jeopardize their own safety and that
of others, as well as impair job performance. It is the policy of the Town/
Authority to comply with all applicable state and/or federal laws in the
administration of creating and sustaining a drug and alcohol free workplace.
   19.2   VIOLATION OF POLICY: Any employee found manufacturing, using,
possessing, selling, distributing, dispensing or being under the influence of
alcohol, drugs, a controlled substance and/or an illegal chemical substance
during working hours or while on Town property, wearing a Town uniform or while
using Town equipment will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination of employment.
   19.3   APPLICATION: This policy applies to all employees as well as all
applicants for employment once they have received a conditional offer of
employment. This policy will comply with the Oklahoma Standards for Workplace
Drug and Alcohol Testing Act, 40 O.S. § 551, et seq. (Act) as amended.
   19.4   APPLICANT PRE-EMPLOYMENT TESTING: All applicants will undergo drug
and/or alcohol testing following a conditional offer of employment, but prior
to final hiring and assignment. Refusal to undergo a test, or a positive test,
will result in the Town withdrawing its conditional offer of employment. In
addition, adulteration of a specimen for a drug or alcohol test will be
considered as a refusal to undergo a test.
   19.5   FOR CAUSE TESTING: Drug and/or alcohol testing may be conducted on
any employee at any time the Town has reasonable suspicion there is cause to
believe an employee may be under the influence of drugs or alcohol, including,
but not limited to, the following circumstances:
1.   Observation of drugs or alcohol on or about the employee’s person or in
the employee’s vicinity;
2.   Observation of conduct on the part of the employee that suggests that the
employee is impaired or is under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
3.   Receipt of a report of drug or alcohol use by an employee while at work;
4.   Information that an employee has tampered with drug or alcohol testing at
any time;
5.   Negative job performance patterns by the employee; or
6.   Excessive or unexplained absenteeism or tardiness.
The supervisor will verbally inform the employee of the reason for the test.
Additionally, a written record of the situation leading to the drug or alcohol
test will be created and signed by the supervisor(s) within 24 hours of the
event. A copy of the report will be forwarded to the Town Clerk.
The employee involved must stop work immediately and will be transported as
soon as possible to the designated testing facility by a management/supervisory
employee. The employee will not be allowed back to work until the results of
the test are known.
   19.6   POST ACCIDENT TESTING: Post-Accident drug and/or alcohol testing may
be conducted on an employee where there has been damage to Town property or
equipment while the employee was at work or the employee or another person has
sustained an injury while at work. The post accident test will be administered
while the employee is still on duty or as close to as possible. No employee
required to take a post accident alcohol or drug test may use any alcohol or
drugs, of any kind, following the accident until the employee undergoes the
post accident testing.
   19.7   RANDOM TESTING: The Town may, at various times, randomly select
members of the following employment groups, at its discretion, for unannounced
random testing for drugs or alcohol:
1.   Police officers;
2.   Firefighters;
3.   E.M.S;
4.   Street;
5.   Town municipal utilities authority: excluding office employees;
6.   Persons engaged in activities which directly affect the safety of the
public;
7.   Employees whose work requires possession of a CDL.
   19.8   PERIODIC SCHEDULED TESTING: The Town may require an employee in any
of the employment groups identified in Section 19.6 above to undergo drug or
alcohol testing as part of a routinely scheduled employee fitness for duty
examination or in connection with the employee’s return to duty from a leave of
absence.
   19.9   POST REHABILITATION TESTING: The Town may require an employee to
undergo drug and/or alcohol testing, without prior notice, for a period of up
to two (2) years after the employee’s return to work following a confirmed
positive test result or following participation in a drug or alcohol dependency
program. Post-rehabilitation testing will be conducted in addition to any other
testing the employee is subject to under this policy.
   19.10   SUBSTANCE FOR WHICH TESTS MAY BE GIVEN: The Town reserves the right
to test for all drugs and for the presence of alcohol. The test for drugs may
include, but are not be limited to: methamphetamines, amphetamines,
cannabinoids, cocaine, phencyclidine (PCP), hallucinogens, methaqualone,
opiates, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, synthetic narcotics, designer drugs,
steroid or a metabolite of any of the above.
Threshold reporting levels will be those established and maintained by the
Federal Department of Transportation and as utilized by the National Institute
for Drug Abuse (NIDA). Any positive levels below those established reporting
levels will not be reported to the Town’s Review Officer by the testing
laboratory.
   19.11   METHODS AND DOCUMENTATION: Collection, storage, transportation,
testing facilities and testing procedures will be conducted in accordance with
rules established by the State Board of Health. Samples may be collected on the
premises of the Town at its election. Body component samples will be collected
with due regard to the privacy of the individual being tested. In no case may
any Town employee directly observe collection of a urine sample. A written
record of the chain of custody of the sample will be maintained until the
sample is no longer required.
All sample testing will conform to scientifically accepted analytical methods
and procedures. Testing will include confirmation testing of any positive test
results by gas chromatography, gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy, or an
equivalent scientifically accepted method of equal or greater accuracy as
approved by the State Board of Health at the cut off levels as determined by
the State Board of Health. In the case of the use of Breathalyzer testing
method, no discipline may be imposed unless there is a confirmation test
performed on a second sample that confirms the prior results.
An applicant or employee will be given the opportunity to provide notification
of any information which he/she considers relevant to the test, including
currently or recently used drugs or other relevant information. In the event
that an applicant or employee wishes to challenge the results of the Town’s
test, he/she may do so as provided in this policy. The applicant or employee
must have had the sample collected within one hour of the Town’s sample and
such retest must be in accordance with the standards set forth by the State
Board of Health and in this policy.
   19.12   COSTS: The Town is responsible for all costs associated with drug or
alcohol testing. However, if an applicant or employee requests a confirmation
test of a sample within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving notice of a
positive test result in order to challenge the results of the positive test,
the applicant or employee is responsible for the cost of the confirmation test
unless the confirmation test reverses the findings of the challenged positive
test. In such case, the Town will reimburse the person for the cost of the
confirmation test.
   19.13   REFUSAL TO UNDERGO TESTING OR TAMPERING WITH SAMPLE: Employees who
refuse to undergo testing according to the terms of this policy will be subject
to disciplinary action up to and including termination. Adulteration of a
specimen or of a drug or alcohol test will be considered as a refusal to
undergo a test and will result in disciplinary action up through and including
termination of employment.
   19.14   REVIEW OFFICER: The Town will contract with a Review Officer who
will receive confirmed positive test results from the testing facility and
evaluate those results in conjunction with the subject employee and/or
applicant. The Review Officer will be qualified by the Board of Health to
receive, interpret and evaluate the test results. Upon receiving a confirmed
positive test result, the Review Officer will contact the applicant or employee
prior to notification of Town officials. The applicant or employee will be
given the opportunity to explain the test results.
   19.15   CONFIDENTIALITY: The Town will treat all tests and all information
related to such tests, as confidential materials. All records relating to drug
testing will be kept separated from personnel records. The records are the
property of the Town but will be made available to the affected applicant or
employee for inspection and copying upon request and will also be available for
review by the Town Review Officer. Except as set forth below, the records will
not be released to any person other than the applicant or the employee without
that person’s express written permission. However, the Town may release the
records:
1.   To comply with a valid judicial or administrative order;
2.   As admissible evidence in a case or proceeding before a court of record or
administrative agency if the employee or the Town is named as a party in the
case or proceeding; or
3.   To employees or agents of the Town who need access to the records in
connection with the administration of this Policy and the Act.
   19.16   DISCIPLINARY ACTION: The Town may elect to take disciplinary action,
up to and including termination of employment, against an employee who: 1)
tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol; 2) refused to test under this policy;
or 3) adulterates a specimen for a drug or alcohol test.
1.   The Town will evaluate the employment history of any employee who tests
positive for drugs and/or alcohol. The appropriate course of action will be
determined based on the employee’s total work record. Where deemed appropriate
by management, an employee may be offered the opportunity to enter into a
rehabilitation program. Continued employment will be contingent upon the
successful completion of a rehabilitation program and an agreement to undergo
periodic drug and/or alcohol post-rehabilitation testing for up to two (2)
years. However, the Town reserves the right to initiate disciplinary action, up
to an including termination of employment, for the first positive test result.
A decision regarding disciplinary action under this policy by management will
be final and binding.
2.   Employees who have tested positive, and who have been offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program in lieu of termination
of employment, will not be allowed to return to work until they can provide a
verified negative “return to work” test from a Town approved facility. An
employee may be allowed a maximum of 12 weeks to provide a verified negative
“return to work” drug or alcohol test. If a negative test is not provided
within 12 weeks, the employee will be terminated from employment. Until a
negative “return to work” test is supplied, the employee will be on leave
without pay. However, an employee may request permission to use accrued sick
leave and vacation leave. An employee may request a “return to work” test no
sooner than two weeks from a positive test result, and subsequently every other
week thereafter, until a negative “return to work” test is obtained. Employees
refusing to seek help or submit to testing in accordance with this policy will
be subject to disciplinary action.
3.   In the event the Town does not terminate the employment of an employee who
has a positive test result, the employee who enters a rehabilitation program
after the positive test results will be permitted to do so only once. Any
future recurrence for abuse with the same or any other substance will result in
termination of employment.
4.   An employee who is discharged from employment on the basis of refusal to
undergo drug or alcohol testing or based on a positive drug or alcohol test
will be considered as having been discharged for misconduct for the purpose of
unemployment compensation and the Town will protest any application for
unemployment benefits.
   19.17   PROHIBITIONS: No employee may report for duty within four hours
after using alcohol or remain on duty while having an alcohol concentration of
0.00 or greater and no supervisor will permit any employee to perform any work
duties if the supervisor is aware the employee has an alcohol concentration of
0.00 or greater. No employee will be on duty or operate a Town vehicle/
equipment or perform job duties while in possession of alcohol nor use alcohol
during duty time. Further, no employee may report for duty, drive a Town-owned
vehicle, operate Town equipment or remain on duty when the employee has used
any controlled substance, except when the use is pursuant to the instructions
of a physician and where the physician has advised an employee the substance
will not adversely affect an employee’s ability to drive a vehicle or operate
equipment. No supervisor having knowledge that an employee has used a
controlled substance may permit an employee to be on duty or drive/operate any
Town vehicle or equipment.
   19.18   RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDIVIDUALS: In order to comply with the
provisions of this policy, each employee assumes the following
responsibilities:
1.   Working under the Influence of Performance Impairing Medication: Employees
who have been prescribed legal medications that might affect the safe
performance of their duties are required to notify their supervisors prior to
performing any hazardous or dangerous tasks.
2.   Reporting to Work or Working While Impaired: Employees may not report to
work and may not continue to work while impaired by any restricted substance
identified in this policy.
3.   Reporting Violations: The services provided by certain employees are
performed, at times, under hazardous and dangerous conditions. Thus, employees
are encouraged to come forward and report any violation of this policy to
management. This information may be instrumental in the prevention of serious
accidents and injuries on the job.
   19.19.   DEFINITION: As used in this policy, the defining terms as follows:
1.   “Alcohol” means ethyl alcohol or ethanol.
2.   “Applicant” means a person who has applied for a position with the Town/
Authority.
3.   “Breath alcohol technician ‘BAT’” - an individual who instructs and
assists in the alcohol testing process and operates an evidential breath
testing device (EST).
4.   “Commercial Motor Vehicle” - motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles used in Commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor
vehicle:
   A.   Has a gross combination weight of 26,001 or more pounds inclusive of a
towed unit with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 10,000 pounds; or
B.   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds; or
C.   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver; or
D.   Is of any size and is used in the transportation of hazardous materials
requiring placards.
5.   “Confirmation test” means a drug or alcohol test on a sample to
substantiate the results of a prior drug or alcohol test on the same sample and
which uses different chemical principles and is of equal or greater accuracy
than the prior drug or alcohol test.
6.   “Driver” - an person who operates a commercial motor vehicle (CMV). For
the purposes of pre-employment testing, the term driver includes a person
applying to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
7.   “Drug” means amphetamines, cannabinoids, cocaine, phencyclidine (PCP),
hallucinogens, methaqualone, opiates, barbiturates, benzodiazepines,
propoxyphene, synthetic narcotics, designer drugs, or a metabolites of any of
the substances listed herein;
8.   “Drug or alcohol test” means a chemical test administer for the purpose of
determining the presence or absence of a drug or its metabolites or alcohol in
a person’s bodily tissue, fluids or products;
9.   “Employee Assistance Program” or “EAP” means an in-house or contracted
program which, at a minimum, provides drug and alcohol dependency evaluation
and referral services for substance abuse counseling treatment rehabilitation.
10.   “Employee” means any person who is an employee of the Town/Authority or
any person volunteering on behalf of the Town/Authority, including but not
limited to reserve police officers.
11.   “Town” means the Town of West Siloam Springs. “Authority” means the
Municipal Authority of West Siloam Springs.
12.   “Random selection bases” means a mechanism or selecting employees for
drug or alcohol testing that:
A.   Results in an equal probability that any employee from a group of
employees subject to the selection mechanism will be selected, and
B.   Does not give the Town/Authority discretion to waive the selection of any
employee selected under the mechanism;
13.   “Reasonable suspicion” means a belief that an employee is using or has
used drugs or alcohol in violation of the Town/Authority’s written policy drawn
from specific objective and particular facts and reasonable inferences drawn
from those facts in light of experience, and may be based upon, among other
things:
A.   Observable phenomena, such as:
1.   Physical symptoms or manifestations of being under the influence of drugs
or alcohol while at work or on duty, or
2.   Direct observation of drug or alcohol use while at work or on duty.
B.   A report of drug or alcohol use while at work or on duty, provided by
reliable and credible sources and which has been independently corroborate.
C.   Evidence that an individual has tampered with a drug or alcohol test
during his/her employment with the Town/Authority, or
D.   Evidence that an employee is involved in the use, possession, sale,
solicitation or transfer of drugs or alcohol while on duty or while on the
Town/Authority’s premises or operating the Town/Authority’s vehicle, machinery
or equipment.
14.   “Medical Review Officer (MRO)” means a person, qualified by the State
Board of Health, who is responsible for receiving results from a testing
facility which have been generated by the Town/Authority’s drug or alcohol
testing program, and who has knowledge and training to interpret and evaluate
an individual’s test results together with the individual’s medical history and
any other relevant information.
15.   “Sample” means tissue, fluid or product of the human body chemically
capable or revealing the presence of drugs or alcohol in the human body.
16.   “Safety-sensitive function”
A.   All time waiting to be dispatched, unless the commercial motor vehicle
driver has been relieved from duty by the employer.
B.   All time inspecting equipment, or otherwise inspecting, servicing, or
conditioning any commercial motor vehicle at anytime.
C.   All time spent at the driving controls of a commercial motor vehicle.
D.   All time loading or unloading a commercial motor vehicle, supervising, or
assisting in the loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or
unloaded, remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle, or in giving or
receiving receipts for shipments loaded or unloaded.
E.   All time spent performing the driver requirements associated with an
accident.
F.   All time repairing, obtaining, assistance or remaining in attendance upon
a disabled vehicle.
17.   “Screening Test” in alcohol testing it means an analytical procedure to
determine whether an employee may have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in
his or her system. In controlled substance testing it means an immunoassay
screen to eliminate “negative” urine specimens from further consideration.
18.   “Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)” - a licensed physician (Medical
Doctor or Doctor of Osteopathy), or a licensed or certified psychologist,
social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor
(certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors
Certification Commission).
SECTION 20: POLICY AGAINST HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
   Discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation in any form constitute
misconduct that undermines the integrity of the employment relationship with
the Town/Authority. The Town/Authority prohibits discrimination and/or
harassment that is sexual, racial, or religious in nature or is related to
anyone’s gender, national origin, age, disability, or any other basis protected
by federal, state, or local law. Furthermore, the Town/Authority will make
reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with known disabilities,
unless doing so would result in an undue hardship, health, or safety concern.
   Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal,
visual, or physical conduct of a harassing and/or discriminatory nature will
constitute harassment and/or discrimination. Employees must be allowed to work
in an environment free from unsolicited and unwelcome sexual overtures. Sex
discrimination and sexual harassment are against the law. The following are
some examples of conduct which may be legally actionable sexual harassment:
•   Use of any offensive or demeaning terms which have sexual connotation.
•   Objectionable physical proximity or physical contact.
•   Any indication, express or implied, that an employee’s job security, job
assignment, conditions of employment, or opportunities for advancement depend
or may depend on the granting of sexual favors to any other employee,
supervisor, or manager.
•   Any action relating to an employee’s job status which is in fact affected
by consideration of the granting or refusal of social or sexual favors.
•   The deliberate or careless creation of an atmosphere of sexual harassment
or intimidation.
•   The deliberate or careless expression of jokes or remarks of a sexual
nature to or in the presence of employees who may find such jokes or remarks
offensive.
•   The deliberate or careless dissemination of materials (such as cartoons,
articles, pictures, etc.) which have a sexual content and which are not
necessary for our work, to employees who may find such materials offensive.
   The Town/Authority expects that everyone will act responsibly to establish a
professional work environment. However, if an employee feels he/she has been
subjected to any form of harassment, discrimination and/or unfair treatment,
the employee should report that conduct to his/her immediate supervisor,
another member of supervision, or the Mayor within three calendar days of the
offense. Employees are not required to approach the person who is harassing
and/or discriminating against them, and they may bypass any offending member of
supervision. The person the harassment or discrimination is reported to will
take the necessary steps to initiate an investigation of the discrimination
and/or harassment claim. Employees who believe they have been discriminated
against on the basis of a disability or who believe they have not been properly
afforded a reasonable accommodation for a disability should utilize this same
complaint and reporting process. The Town/Authority will conduct its
investigation in as confidential a manner as possible. However, the Town/
Authority will not allow the goal of confidentiality to be a deterrent to an
effective investigation. A timely resolution of each complaint will be reached
and communicated to the employee. Appropriate corrective action, up to and
including termination, will be taken promptly against any employee engaging in
discrimination and/or harassment. The corrective action issued will be
proportional to the severity of the conduct. The alleged harasser’s employment
history and any similar complaints of prior unlawful discrimination and/or
harassment will be taken into consideration.
   The Town/Authority prohibits retaliation of any kind against employees, who,
in good faith, report harassment, discrimination and/or unfair treatment or
assist in investigating such complaints. If an employee feels he/she has been
subjected to any form of retaliation, the employee should report that conduct
to his/her immediate supervisor, another member of supervision, or the Mayor
within three calendar days of the offense. Employees are not required to
approach the person who is retaliating against them, and they may bypass any
offending member of management.
(Document, “Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma and West Siloam Springs
Municipal Authority Personnel Policies”) (Res. 2021-11-02, passed 11-15-2021;
Ord. 2025-06-01, passed 6-16-2025)
GRIEVANCE FORM 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1255.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1257.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1259.jpg]
GRIEVANCE FORM 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1261.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1263.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1265.jpg]
 
GRIEVANCE FORM 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1267.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1269.jpg][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/IMAGES/0-0-0-1271.jpg][https://
export.amlegal.com/media/22453989433a06d02172d2dba58e10f910734048/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1273.jpg]
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Application
   
32.02   Jurisdiction
   
32.03   State statute adopted by reference
Organization and Procedure
   
32.15   Judge; Alternate Judge; Acting Judge
   
32.16   Compensation of Judges
   
32.17   No change of venue; disqualification of Judge
   
32.18   Chief of Police
   
32.19   Municipal Attorney
   
32.20   Clerk of Court
   
32.21   Style of prosecutions
   
32.22   Traffic violations; release upon personal recognizance
   
32.23   Traffic violations; bail
   
32.24   Traffic violations; other considerations
   
32.25   Summons
   
32.26   Complaints against a corporation
   
32.27   Warrant of arrest
   
32.28   Bail; temporary bonds
   
32.29   Arraignment
   
32.30   Postponement of trial
   
32.31   Trial procedure
   
32.32   Contempt
   
32.33   Defendant to be present at trial; failure to appear
   
32.34   Judgment
   
32.35   Costs upon judgment of conviction; court costs; Training Fund; Park
Fund
   
32.36   Court fine and costs schedule
   
32.37   Enforcement by imprisonment; persons unable to pay
   
32.38   Suspension of sentence
   
32.39   Witness fees
 
   
32.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Bond and Fine Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Court of the town as put into operation and continued by resolution,
duly passed and filed in accordance with state law.
   (B)   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any other ordinance of the town, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 32.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this code of
ordinances or of any other ordinance of the town is charged, including any such
prosecutions transferred to said court, in accordance with applicable laws.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 32.03 STATE STATUTE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 et seq., as amended, which are
applicable to the town, are hereby adopted and incorporated in this code of
ordinances, as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 1, § 3)
ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 JUDGE; ALTERNATE JUDGE; ACTING JUDGE.
   (See
Chapter 31 of this code of ordinances).
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 11)
§ 32.16 COMPENSATION OF JUDGES.
   (A)   The compensation of the Judge and the Alternate or Acting Judge of the
Municipal Court of the town shall be as determined by motion of the Town Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 12)
   (B)   (1)   A Judge, other than an Alternate or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a monthly salary in an amount to be determined by the Board of
Trustees, and to be paid in the same manner as the salaries of other municipal
officials.
      (2)   An Alternate or an Acting Judge shall be paid (monthly) an amount
not to exceed the amount currently established for the Municipal Judge, or $200
for each day devoted to the performance of all duties. Any amount paid to the
Alternate or Acting Judge shall, at the discretion of the Town Board of
Trustees, be deducted from the salary which would have been due to the Judge
who failed, neglected, or was unable to perform such duties as Judge.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 13)
§ 32.17 NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
a personal disqualification or may be disqualified from sitting, under the
terms, conditions, and procedures provided by law for courts of record.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an Alternate or Acting Judge, appointed as provided in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 14)
§ 32.18 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police of the town, who shall be the principal officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 15)
§ 32.19 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Municipal Attorney, or a duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the Municipal Court, and shall be authorized to
prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the town, and to
prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review from the Court
to any other courts of the state.
   (B)   The Municipal Attorney also shall be authorized to represent the town
in all proceedings arising out of matters of the Court.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 16)
§ 32.20 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer, or a designated deputy, shall be the Clerk
of the Court. Duties of the Court Clerk shall include the following:
      (1)   Assisting the Municipal Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, process, and other papers;
      (2)   Administrating oaths required in proceedings before the Court;
      (3)   Entering all pleadings, process, and proceedings in the dockets of
the Court;
      (4)   Performing such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings
of the Court, as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      (5)   Receiving and receipting for forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums
of money payable to the Court; and
      (6)   Assuming responsibility for placing, or having placed, all money
received (except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed for special purposes), in the General Fund of the municipality, or in
such other fund and in such manner as the Town Board of Trustees may direct, by
motion or resolution.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond to the town in the sum of
$10,000.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 17)
§ 32.21 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   All prosecutions for violation of this code of ordinances or other
ordinances of the municipality shall be styled “The Town of West Siloam
Springs, Oklahoma, Plaintiff, vs. (naming defendant or defendants).”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided with respect to traffic violations,
prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a written complaint,
subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint and setting forth
concisely the offense charged.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 19)
§ 32.22 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; RELEASE UPON PERSONAL RECOGNIZANCE.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which are believed to constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the town, committed by any person,
whether a resident of this state or a non-resident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a violation of a municipal traffic ordinance,
such person shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal
recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by the state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any participating jurisdiction of the Non-Resident Violator Compact;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear, as provided
for on the citation; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding, or attempting to elude, a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial,
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with an offense stated in divisions
(A) through (F) of this section;
         (h)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (i)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall, in writing, in a form prescribed by the Town Board of Trustees, or a
duly designated delegate:
      (1)   Designate the traffic charge;
      (2)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license on
the citation form, including the names, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
      (3)   Record the motor vehicle make, model, and tag information;
      (4)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      (5)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation. The arresting officer shall then release the
person upon personal recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The
citation shall contain a written notice to the arrested person that release
upon personal recognizance, based upon a signed written promise to appear for
arraignment, is conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment
shall result in the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in the
state, or in the non-resident’s home state pursuant to the Non-Resident
Violator Compact.
   (C)   The Court, or the Court Clerk, as directed by the Court, may continue
or re-schedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested
person or an attorney. If the arraignment is continued or re-scheduled, the
arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise to
appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences as if the continued or re-scheduled arraignment were entered on
the citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An
arraignment may be continued or re-scheduled more than one time; provided,
however, that the Court shall require an arraignment to be had within a
reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the defendant to appear for
arraignment unless the citation is satisfied, as provided for in division (D)
below.
   (D)   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before a
requirement to appear for arraignment, by indicating such plea on the copy of
the furnished citation, or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date of
the plea and a signature. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring full
payment of the fine and costs to the appropriate Court Clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier’s, traveler’s, certified, or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the Court, in an amount prescribed as bail for the offense;
provided, however, that the defendant shall not use currency for payment by
mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, as
provided for in this division (D), such plea shall be accepted by the Court,
and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed in this chapter as
bail for the violation. If the defendant pays the fine and costs in the manner
prescribed by this division (D), but fails to indicate his or her plea on the
copy of the furnished citation, or fails to sign or date the plea entered on
the copy of the furnished citation then, upon receipt of payment of the fine
and costs by the Court Clerk, the defendant shall be deemed to have entered a
plea of guilty to the violation charged.
   (E)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above, the defendant
does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere and fails to
timely appear for arraignment, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter; the Municipal Court Clerk,
within 120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting
officer, shall notify the Department of Public Safety that:
      (1)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for
arraignment, as provided for in the citation;
      (2)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
      (3)   The violation related to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
and
      (4)   The citation has not been satisfied, as provided by law.
   (F)   Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the Department of Public
Safety to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state and request
suspension of the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of the Non-Resident Violator Compact. Such notice and request shall
be on a form approved or furnished by the Department of Public Safety.
   (G)   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this division (G) if, with respect to such charges:
      (1)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was failed,
or otherwise settled the case;
      (2)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear, as provided for in this section, or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
      (3)   The violation related to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
      (4)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date the
citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (H)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for
driver’s license suspension submitted to the Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the Court or Court Clerk
receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the
citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the
case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by First Class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation, or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the Court or
Court Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant, as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the Non-Resident Violator
Compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the Department of the resolution
of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be
approved by the Department of Public Safety; provided, however, that the Court
or Court Clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided
for in this division (H) shall in no event create any civil liability upon the
Court, the Court Clerk, the state, or any political subdivision thereof, or any
State Department or Agency, or employee thereof. Duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto, upon request.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 18)
§ 32.23 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; BAIL.
   (A)   If a resident of the town is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
the violation of any traffic ordinance for which §
32.22 does not apply, the officer shall immediately release said person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it; provided, however,
that the arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably
appears to the officer that the person may cause self-injury or injury to
others, or damage to property if released, that the person will not appear in
response to the citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a
person or property. If said person fails to appear in response to the citation,
a complaint shall be filed, and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in division (A) above, said person shall be admitted
to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance. A fine for up to the maximum amount authorized by courts not of
record may be assessed for failure of a person to have a valid driver’s
license, when charged with a traffic violation.
   (C)   If a resident or non-resident of the town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which §
32.22 does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
   (D)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of divisions (A) through (C) above shall be determined by the Judge, who shall
prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and the release on personal
recognizance. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the Judge
is not available, a Court Official, the Chief of Police, or a designated
representative may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a
sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall
not exceed the maximum fine provided for by ordinance for each offense charged.
The Court Official, Chief of Police, or a designated representative is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to
release a resident of the municipality on personal recognizance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 18)
§ 32.24 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; OTHER CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance, as provided for in §§
32.22 or
32.23(A), or is eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the
officer shall deliver the person to an appropriate Judge for arraignment, and
the Judge shall proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no Judge is
available, the defendant shall be placed in the custody of the appropriate
Municipal Jailor or Custodian, to be held until a Judge is available or bail is
posted as provided for by ordinance, before or after arraignment.
   (B)   If a resident or non-resident is arrested for any overweight
violation, a violation of a special permit exceeding authorized permit weight,
or violation relating to the transportation of hazardous material, the
arresting officer may release the defendant if the defendant deposits with the
arresting officer appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs in an
amount and in the form as provided in this chapter, except currency.
   (C)   In the event the defendant is additionally arrested for any violation
for which personal recognizance is authorized pursuant to §
32.22, the arresting officer, for such additional violation, may either release
the defendant upon such recognizance, or require bail as provided for in this
division (C).
   (D)   If the defendant is unable to post bail with the arresting officer,
then the officer shall proceed as otherwise provided for in §§
32.22 through
32.24.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a juvenile may be
held in custody pursuant to the provisions of §§
32.22 through
32.24, but shall be incarcerated separately from any adult offender; provided,
however, that the arresting officer shall not be required to:
         (a)   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in §§
32.22 through
32.24; or
         (b)   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
            1.   Who is injured, disabled, or otherwise incapacitated;
            2.   Whose custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
            3.   Where, if extraordinary circumstances exist in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      (2)   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and
time for arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person
fails to appear without good cause shown, the Court may issue a warrant for the
person’s arrest.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (E) shall not be construed to:
         (a)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person
from custody;
         (b)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry
or investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
division (E); or
         (c)   Create any liability upon any officer, the state, or any
political subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not to
release such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this division
(E).
   (F)   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in this
section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The operator of the
vehicle shall be under full obligation to respond to the citation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 18)
§ 32.25 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging a violation of this code of
ordinances or other ordinance(s) of the town, the Municipal Judge, unless said
Judge determines to issue a warrant of arrest, unless the defendant previously
has been issued a citation, or unless said defendant has been arrested and
given bond for such appearance, shall issue a summons naming the person
charged, specifying the address or place of residence (if known), stating the
offense charged and giving notice to answer the charge in the Municipal Court
on a day certain, five days hence (Sundays and holidays excepted), or the next
Municipal Court date after the summons is served, containing a provision for
the official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally.
      (2)   Failure to appear and answer the summons within the prescribed
period shall constitute indirect contempt of Court, and a warrant shall be
issued for the defendant’s arrest, as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 20)
§ 32.26 COMPLAINTS AGAINST A CORPORATION.
   (A)   Upon complaint against a corporation being filed with the Municipal
Judge of the town, said Judge shall issue a summons in a form as outlined in
this chapter, signed with the title of office, requiring the corporation to
appear before said Judge at a specific time and place to answer the complaint.
   (B)   The summons must be served at least two days before the day of
appearance fixed therein, by delivering a copy thereof and showing the original
to the president, secretary, cashier, or managing agent or director of the
corporation.
   (C)   At the time appointed in the summons, the Municipal Judge shall try
the complaint in the same manner as in the case of any other person brought
before said Court.
   (D)   When a fine is imposed upon a conviction, it may be collected by the
Municipal Judge making a transcript of the proceedings thereof, together with
the judgment of the Court duly certified and filed with the Clerk of the
District Court, and execution shall be issued thereon and served by the Sheriff
of the county, as in cases of execution generally.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 21)
§ 32.27 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided in this code of ordinances, upon
the filing of a complaint, approved by the endorsement of the Town Attorney or
by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in
substantially the following form:
 
The Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the
Municipal Court of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by ____________________, that
the offense of ____________________ has been committed and accusing
_______________________, thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith to
arrest the above-named (Defendant or Defendants) and bring (him, her, them)
before me at my office at the West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma, Municipal Court
Room.
Witness my hand this ______ day of _______, 20____.
  Judge of the Municipal Court
 of the Town of West
  Siloam Springs, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to execute such warrant as
promptly as possible, either personally, through a duly constituted member of
the police force of the town, or through any other person lawfully authorized
to act.
   (C)   There shall be assessed a fee in the amount of $67 upon the issuance
of a warrant of arrest pursuant to this section, which fee shall be paid by the
defendant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 22)
§ 32.28 BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a resident of the town is arrested by a law enforcement
officer for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which division (F) below
does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic ordinance,
the officer shall immediately release said person if the person acknowledges
receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the arresting officer
need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the officer that the
person may cause injury to himself or herself, or others, or damage to property
if released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or
the person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If said
person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued
for his or her arrest, and his or her appearance shall be compelled.
   (B)   Whenever a resident of the town is not released by being permitted to
sign a citation as provided for in division (A) above, he or she shall be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on
personal recognizance. A municipality may prescribe a fine for up to the
maximum amount authorized by courts not of record for failure of a person to
have a valid driver’s license when charged with a traffic violation.
   (C)   Whenever a non-resident of a municipality served by a Municipal Court
is arrested by a law enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for
which division (F) below does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   (D)   The town may require any person who is arrested by a police officer of
said town for a municipal traffic violation to comply with statutory procedures
for state traffic violations, with respect to the release of the arrested
person. The following methods of posting bail shall apply:
      (1)   Posting cash bail, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by
the arresting officer;
      (2)   Depositing with the arresting officer a “guaranteed arrest bond
certificate;” or
      (3)   Depositing with the arresting officer a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the arresting
officer, which shall be recognized as an operator’s license and shall authorize
the person’s operation of a motor vehicle to the date of the hearing; provided,
that said date shall not exceed 20 days from the date of arrest.
   (E)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall be determined by the Judge, who shall prescribe rules for
the receipt of bail and for the release on personal recognizance. The amount of
bail for each offense shall not exceed the maximum fine plus court costs,
unless the defendant has a previous history of failing to appear according to
the terms or conditions of a bond, in which case the amount of bail shall not
exceed $1,000. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the Judge
is not available, a court official, the Chief of Police, or his or her
designated representative, may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such
conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond
in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond
shall not exceed the maximum fine provided for by ordinance for each offense
charged, unless the defendant has a previous history of failing to appear
according to the terms or conditions of a bond, in which case the amount of the
cash bond shall not exceed $1,000. The court official, Chief of Police, or his
or her designated representative, is authorized, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the Judge, to release a resident of the municipality on
personal recognizance.
   (F)   If a resident or non-resident of the town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a traffic ordinance,
other than an ordinance pertaining to a parking or standing traffic violation,
and the arrested person is eligible to sign a written promise to appear and be
released upon personal recognizance as provided for in 22 O.S. § 1115.1, then
the procedures provided for in State and Municipal Traffic, Water Safety, and
Wildlife Bail Bond Procedure Act, being 22 O.S. §§ 1115 et seq. as applied to
municipalities, shall govern. A municipality, by ordinance, may prescribe a
bail bond schedule for this purpose and may provide for bail to be used as
payment of the fine and costs upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, as
provided for in 22 O.S. § 1115.1. Absent such ordinance, the Municipal Court
may prescribe a bail bond schedule for traffic offenses. The amount of bail
shall not exceed the maximum fine and costs provided by ordinance for each
offense, unless the defendant has a previous history of failing to appear
according to the terms or conditions of a bond, in which case the amount of
bail shall not exceed $1,000.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 23)
§ 32.29 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making an appearance before the Municipal Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Municipal Judge or the Town Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform said defendant of all legal rights, of the consequences
of conviction, and ask whether the plea is guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence, or may
continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 24)
§ 32.30 POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL.
   Before a trial commences in the Municipal Court, either party, upon good
cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 25)
§ 32.31 TRIAL PROCEDURE.
   In all trials in the Municipal Court as to matters not covered in this
chapter, by the statutes relating to Municipal Criminal Courts, or by rules
duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply, to the extent that
they can be made effective.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 26)
§ 32.32 CONTEMPT.
   (A)   Obedience to the orders, rules, and judgments made by the Municipal
Judge or by the Municipal Court may be enforced by said Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed while holding Court, or committed against
process issued by said Judge, in the same manner and to the same extent, as the
District Courts of this state.
   (B)   It shall be an offense to be in contempt, directly or indirectly, of
the Municipal Court of the town and of its orders.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 27) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.33 DEFENDANT TO BE PRESENT AT TRIAL; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   The defendant must be personally present at the trial in the Municipal
Court.
   (B)   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of the bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial,
or judgment, or upon any other occasion when presence in court or before the
magistrate may be lawfully required, the Municipal Judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. Without advancing court costs, said Judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the county wherein the
situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the judgment
docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District Court Judgment.
At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the District Court Judgment
Docket, the District Court Clerk shall proceed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of state statutes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 28)
§ 32.34 JUDGMENT.
   (A)   At the close of a trial in the Municipal Court, judgment must be
rendered by the Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her
docket.
   (B)   If the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, said defendant must
be discharged at once.
   (C)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
Municipal Court must render judgment thereof, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by this code of ordinances or other applicable ordinance, and
imposing sentence accordingly.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 29)
§ 32.35 COSTS UPON JUDGMENT OF CONVICTION; COURT COSTS; TRAINING FUND; PARK
FUND.
   (A)   (1)   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court
shall tax the costs to the defendant, in a sum as provided by state law,
including the fees and mileage of witnesses, court costs, and CLEET
contributions.
      (2)   Court costs shall be no more than $52 per case, and shall be added
on top of any fine; all moneys collected shall be deposited in the appropriate
Municipal Fund.
      (3)   For every fine or bond forfeiture of $10 or more collected by the
town, the amount required by current state law shall be paid to the Court as a
separate penalty assessment (which shall be in addition to all other fines and
costs), to be used to reimburse the Council on Law Enforcement Education and
Training Fund (CLEET); the Town Clerk/Treasurer, or other individuals
designated by the Town Board of Trustees, shall forward the total reimbursement
to the state, as long as required by, and in accordance with, state law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 30)
   (B)   Ten dollars from each Municipal Court citation shall be allocated to
the Town Park Fund.
(Ord. 17-10-2, passed 10-12-2017)
§ 32.36 COURT FINE AND COSTS SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the Bond and Fine Schedule attached
hereto as
Appendix A, court costs shall be $52 per citation to be assessed against those
persons determined by the Municipal Court of the town to be in violation of the
ordinances, town code, or other resolutions, rules, and regulations of the
town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 118)
   (B)   All offenses for which citations are issued for appearance in the Town
Municipal Court shall be subject to the payment of court costs set forth in
division (A) above. Such court costs do not include bonds, fines, or other
assessments otherwise imposed by laws, codes, ordinances, and resolutions of
the state or the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 119)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Trustees for the town hereby adopts the Bond and
Fine Schedule attached hereto as
Appendix A, incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   Any crime or offense not listed on said Bond and Fine Schedule
shall be subject to bond and/or fine in the amount provided for such offense
under the laws of the state.
      (3)   The list of offenses and amount of bond and/or fine for such
offenses shall be subject to amendment by the Board of Trustees by resolution
of said Board.
(Ord. 17-10-1, passed 10-12-2017)
§ 32.37 ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT; PERSONS UNABLE TO PAY.
   (A)   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment, until the same
shall be satisfied, at the rate of $25 per day.
   (B)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge of the town may direct the total amount due to be entered upon
the court minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the county
wherein the situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
District Court Judgment Docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
District Court Judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of said judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 31)
§ 32.38 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence of a defendant in the Municipal Court of the
town, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence in accordance with the
provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by,
applicable provisions of 11 O.S., as amended.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 32)
§ 32.39 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Municipal Court, other than police
officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to $10 for each day of
attendance, plus an amount equal to the then effective Internal Revenue
Service-approved mileage reimbursement/deduction rate for miles actually and
necessarily traveled in going to, and returning from, the place of attendance,
if his, her, or their residence is more than five miles outside the corporate
limits of the town. No witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one
case for the same period of time or the same travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
of the Court a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned; such deposit shall not be required
from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of poverty, is unable to provide fees and
mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of such witnesses is material; and
      (4)   His, her, or their attendance at the trial is necessary for proper
defense.
   (C)   The fees of witnesses in such cases (division (B) above) shall be paid
by the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 2, § 33)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the Judge of the Municipal
Court of the town, if said Judge is a licensed attorney, may impose a fine or
deferral fee in lieu of a fine not to exceed $750 against any person convicted
of traffic-related offenses relating to speeding or parking, or a fine or
deferral fee in lieu of a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment not to
exceed 60 days, or both fine and imprisonment, against any person convicted of
any other act deemed to be an offense by this code of ordinances, further
provided that a maximum fine of $1,000 and costs or imprisonment not exceeding
90 days or both such fine and imprisonment for violations of municipal
ordinances regulating the pretreatment of wastewater and regulating storm water
discharges.
   (C)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the town is not a licensed
attorney, the fine provided for in division (B) above shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50.
   (D)   Individuals convicted of committing the following named offenses shall
be subject to a fine not to exceed the amount stated for each offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 3, § 41)
APPENDIX A: BOND AND FINE SCHEDULE
 
ORD. # Description WSSPD
ORD. #   Description                                                                    WSSPD
47-11-   Speeding 1-10 Over                                                             $165.00
801
47-11-   Speeding 11-15 Over                                                            $185.00
801
47-11-   Speeding 16-20 Over                                                            $205.00
801
47-11-   Speeding 21-25 Over                                                            $225.00
801
47-11-   Speeding 26 or Over                                                            $240.00
801
47-11-   Speeding too Fast for Conditions                                               $240.00
801.A
47-11-   Operating a Motor Veh. in a Mannner Not Reasonable                             $275.00
801.A
47-11-   Reckless Driving                                                               $440.00
901
47-7-    Failure too Carry Security Verification                                        $160.00
602.l
47-7-606 Failure to Comply with Compulsory Insurance Law                                $180.00
47-6-    No Valid Driver’s License                                                    $190.00
303.A
47-6-    Driving While Suspended or Revoked                                             $480.00
303.B
47-6-305 Allowing An Unauthorized Person to Drive                                       $160.00
47-6-    Commercial Drivers - Operating a Comm. Vehicle While using a Hand-held Mobile  $540.00
205.2    Telephone
47-21-   Eluding A Police Officer                                                       $750.00
540.A
21 O.S.  Resisting or Obstructing a Police Officer                                      $750.00
21-268
21 O.S.  Assault and Battery on a Police Officer                                        $750.00
21-644
21 O.S.  Assault and Battery                                                            $280.00
21-644
47-11-   Leaving a Child or Vulnerable Adult Unattended In a Motor Vehicle              $540.00
1119.D.1
37 O.S.  Drinking Alcoholic Beverage in Public                                          $150.00
37-8
37 O.S.  Public Intox. or Public Drunk                                                  $260.00
37-8
21-1220  Transporting An Open Container of Beer                                         $180.00
State    Impaired Driving                                                               $325.00
47-11-   DUI Drugs                                                                      $750.00
902.A
47-11-   DUI or APC (Alcohol) Actual Phys. Control                                      $150.00
902.A
10A 2-8- Minor in Poss. of Beer                                                         $140.00
222
10A 2-8- Minors in Poss. of Tobacco                                                     $140.00
224
47-      Failure to Display Current ID or Number Plate                                  $180.00
1151.A.9
47-      Failure to Pay Taxes Due to State                                              $240.00
1151.A.5
47-1151- Affixing Improper License Plate to MV                                          $500.00
A-1
47-      Operating a Cycle Not Subject to Registration on Street or Highway             $160.00
1151.E
40.105.G Motorcycle Violations Under 21 Operating Without                               $140.00
47-6-    Violation of License Rest.                                                     $140.00
113.D
4-12-    Seatbelt Not in Use (10/10)                                                    $20.00
417.A
47-11-   Child Restraint Not in Use (50/52)                                             $102.00
1112
21 O.S.
21-      Carrying a Concealed Weapon in Vehicle                                         $350.00
1289.7
21 O.S.  Carrying a Loaded Firearm                                                      $500.00
21-1272
21 O.S.  Destroying Property                                                            $380.00
21-1760
21 O.S.  Discharging A Firearm in City Limits                                           $175.00
21-1364
21 O.S.  Disturbing the Peace                                                           $190.00
21-22
21-1835  Trespassing                                                                    $200.00
State    Unlawful Entrance                                                              $450.00
21-1740  Pump Pirate Act - Gas Drive Off                                                $480.00
21-1706  Petit Larceny under $500.00                                                    $500.00
21-1706  Petit Larceny over $500.00                                                     $750.00
21-1704  Grand Larceny                                                                  $750.00
21-1731  Shoplifting                                                                    $480.00
21-1731  Larceny of Merchandise From Retailer                                           $500.00
47-12-   Defective Equipment                                                            $140.00
101
        Construction Zone Double Speeding and Reckless                                  
47-11-   Inattentive Driving                                                            $140.00
901b
21-1713  Knowingly Concealing Stolen Property over $500.00                              $750.00
21-1451  Embezzlement                                                                   $750.00
21-1503  Defrauding an Innkeeper                                                        $500.00
21-      Bogus Check                                                                    $500.00
1541.1
21-1512  False Declaration of Ownership to a Pawn Broker                                $500.00
21-1577  Uttering a Forged Instrument                                                   $750.00
63.2-    Poss. of CDS                                                                   $640.00
405.B
63-2-    Purchasing or possessing CDS within 1,000’ of any school, university, or any $750.00
402.C    park, or in presence of a child under 12 YOA
63-402   Poss. of Marijuana                                                             $540.00
63-2-    Poss. of Paraphernalia                                                         $540.00
101.1
47-10-   Leaving the Scene of an Accident                                               $750.00
103
47-11-   Failure to Yield to Emergency Vehicle                                          $190.00
405.A
47-11-   Failure to Keep Right                                                          $160.00
301.A
47-11-   Driving Left of Center                                                         $140.00
307.B
47-11-   Failure to Stop For A School Bus Loading/Unloading                             $540.00
705.A
47-11-   Failure to Stop For Stop Sign or Traffic Signal                                $160.00
403.B
47-11-   Failure to Yield                                                               $190.00
704
47-11-   Following too Closely                                                          $140.00
310
47-11-   Turning Violation                                                              $140.00
601
47-11-   Improper Backing                                                               $140.00
1102
47-11-   Passing Violation                                                              $140.00
304.B
47-12-   Improper Display of Bluelight                                                  $160.00
1227.D
47-11-   Parking Violation                                                              $140.00
1003/4
47-12-   Operation Without Proper Eye Protection                                        $140.00
609
47-12-   Failure to Dim Lights                                                          $140.00
203.2
47-11-   Wrong Way on a One Way                                                         $250.00
308.b
21-      Throwing From MV Burning or Smoldering                                         $1,200.00
1753.3
47-14-   Fail to Cover Load Susceptible to Blowing/Secure                               $180.00
105.B
21-      Dump Trash on Public, Private Property                                         $290.00
1761.1
City     All Other Crimes and Offenses Not Mentioned                                    $240.00
Ch. 3-1- Animal At Large                                                                $140.00
9
Ch. 3-1- Vicious Dog                                                                    $380.00
12
Ch.14-2- Violation of Curfew                                                            $140.00
23
Ch. 14-  Littering                                                                      $250.00
5-58
ch-18-6- Parking in Handicap Zone                                                       $160.00
71.3
Ch. 2-2- Transporting An Open Container of Liquor                                       $180.00
19
Ch. 18-  Over Weight on City Street                                                     $200.00
9-117
Ch. 18-  Jake Brakes                                                                    $140.00
4-44
Ch. 4-8- Fail to display 911 Address                                                    $50.00
49
Ch. 5-1- Peddling Without a License                                                     $175.00
2
Ch. 3-1- Public Nuisance by Animal                                                      $175.00
2
Ch. 16-  Tampering With/Injuring Municipal Water System                                 $175.00
2-3
Ch. 18-  Inoperable Vehicle                                                             $175.00
3-37.1
ch. 18-  Park Within 15’ of Fire Hydrant                                              $160.00
6-71.1.D
Ch. 8-1- Burning Trash in City                                                          $140.00
5
 
(Document, “Bond and Fine Schedule”)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND BUSINESS
Section
Finance and Business Procedures
   
33.01   Purchasing and sales procedures
   
33.02   Insurance
   
33.03   Capital Improvements Fund created
Donations
   
33.15   Bereavement donation policy
FINANCE AND BUSINESS PROCEDURES
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The provisions of the State Competitive Public Bidding Act of 1974, 61
O.S. §§ 101 et seq., are incorporated into this section as if fully restated
herein. The Town Board of Trustees shall contract for and purchase, or issue
purchase authorization for, all supplies, material and equipment for the
operation of the municipal government. For contracts involving amounts in
excess of $50,000, the Town Board of Trustees shall submit the contracts to
competitive public bidding pursuant to the procedure prescribed by the State
Competitive Public Bidding Act.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may purchase, or authorize the purchase of,
the following without giving an opportunity for competitive public bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services of a
nonprofessional nature, the cost of which does not exceed $50,000;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services which can
be furnished only by a single dealer, or which has a uniform price wherever
bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers (including war surplus);
      (4)   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, and the
like) purchased from a public utility corporation, commission, or other
government authority; or
      (5)   Contractual services of a professional nature such as engineering,
legal, architectural, and medical services, subject to other policies adopted
by the Town Board of Trustees governing procurement.
   (C)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby designated as the Municipal
Purchasing Agent, and is authorized to issue purchase orders for the purpose of
obtaining supplies, materials, and equipment or contractual services that do
not exceed the maximum amount allowed by state law in a single transaction.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of state law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment belonging to the town may be sold by
the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   No such sale of surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment
shall be made under this section until the Town Board of Trustees has declared
the supplies, materials, and equipment involved to be surplus or obsolete.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 33.02 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may insure municipal property, as
authorized by the state statutes. Any money received as a result of
destruction, damages, or loss of such insured property shall be accounted for,
and used as provided by said statutes.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may purchase insurance to pay damages to
persons sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent
operation of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the town.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees may provide hospital, health, and medical
insurance, through any company authorized to do business in the state, for any
or all of its officers or employees and their dependents, whether said officers
or employees are engaged in governmental or non-governmental functions of the
town. The Town Board of Trustees may pay a portion of all of said premiums from
any municipal funds and may deduct from the wages or salary of any such officer
or employee, upon written authority signed by the officer or employee, amounts
for the payment of all or any portion of the monthly premium for same.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 33.03 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Capital Improvements Fund
for the town which shall not be subject to fiscal operations.
   (B)   The proceeds of said fund, together with any interest thereon, may, at
the discretion of the Town Board of Trustees, be used for the following
purposes only:
      (1)   To meet principal and interest requirements on general obligation
bonds;
      (2)   When general obligation bond requirements are met, to make cash
expenditures for capital improvements or equipment for street, electric, water,
storm drainage, or sewer purposes; or
      (3)   Where transfers from said fund or any part thereof to a sinking
fund or other appropriate municipal or trust fund are necessary to accomplish
such purpose, the Town Board is authorized to make such transfer of funds.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 1, § 3)
DONATIONS
§ 33.15 BEREAVEMENT DONATION POLICY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, acting through the Mayor or Vice Mayor, is
hereby authorized to make monetary donations not to exceed $100 to memorial
funds or funds created for the benefit of surviving family members in those
instances where town employee or personnel, resident of the town, or immediate
family member of the town personnel dies in a tragic accident or under
circumstances where the Mayor or Vice Mayor feels that such a monetary donation
is appropriate. Said monetary donation shall be made from the General Fund. The
Mayor and Vice Mayor are authorized to make donations under this section
without prior Board approval.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, TOWN EMPLOYEE OR PERSONNEL shall
include police officers for the town or municipal authority, supervisors for
the town or municipal authority, Department Heads for the town or municipal
authority, trustees, full-time staff for the town or municipal authority, part-
time staff for the town or municipal authority, the Municipal Judge, the Town
Attorney, elected and appointed clerks of the town or municipal authority, and
others if the Mayor or Vice Mayor feels that a monetary donation to such a
person affiliated with the town or municipal authority is appropriate.
(Ord. 2023-01-01, passed 1-16-2023)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
Sales Tax Administration
   
34.001   Subsisting state permits
   
34.002   Purpose of revenue
   
34.003   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
34.004   Exemptions
   
34.005   Other exempt transfers
   
34.006   Tax due when
   
34.007   Payment of tax
   
34.008   Prior claim
   
34.009   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.010   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
34.011   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
34.012   Tax collector defined
   
34.013   Delinquency
   
34.014   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.015   Erroneous payments; claim for refunds
   
34.016   Records confidential
   
34.017   Amendments
Use Tax Administration
   
34.030   Title
   
34.031   Definitions
   
34.032   Excise tax on storage, use, or consumption of personal property
   
34.033   Exemptions
   
34.034   Tax due when
   
34.035   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.036   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
34.037   Revoking permits
   
34.038   Renumerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers or other states
   
34.039   Delinquency
   
34.040   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.041   Erroneous payments; claim for refunds
   
34.042   Record confidential
   
34.043   Provisions cumulative
   
34.044   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.045   Subsisting state permits
   
34.046   Purposes of revenues
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
34.060   Title
   
34.061   Subsisting state permits
   
34.062   Effective date and termination
   
34.063   Definitions
   
34.064   Use of funds
   
34.065   Tax levied
   
34.066   Exemptions
   
34.067   Tax to be designated
   
34.068   Operator responsibility for collection
   
34.069   Discount
   
34.070   Records
   
34.071   Returns
   
34.072   Payment of tax
   
34.073   Bond required
   
34.074   Assessment and determination of tax
   
34.075   Refunds
   
34.076   Notices
   
34.077   Remedies exclusive
   
34.078   Clerk/Treasurer; powers
   
34.079   Registration certificates; certificates of authority
   
34.080   Administration
   
34.081   Interest
   
34.082   Records confidential
   
34.083   Amendments
   
34.084   Provisions cumulative
   
34.085   Payment of legal fees
 
   
34.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupational taxes and licenses, see
Ch. 110
SALES TAX ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.001 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 5)
§ 34.002 PURPOSE OF REVENUE.
   It is hereby declared the purpose of this subchapter to provide revenues for
general government operations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 6)
§ 34.003 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 1.75% upon the gross proceeds or
gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Law of the
state, being 68 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, except water;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of person by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, Pullman car companies, airlines, and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having connection with transmission of
any message;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, and characters, and
the service of printing or overprinting;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotels, apartment hotels, public
rooming houses, and public lodging houses and tourist camps;
   (G)   Service for furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels
and parking lots;
   (H)   Foods, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (I)   Advertising of all kinds, types, and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and servicing of any advertising devices,
except as provided elsewhere in this subchapter;
   (J)   Dues or fees to clubs, and the sale of tickets or admission to places
of amusement, to athletic, entertainment, recreational events, or dues or fees
for the privilege of having access to or the use of amusement, entertainment,
athletic, or recreational facilities, including free or complimentary passes,
tickets, dues, or fees, all of which are hereby declared to have a value
equivalent to the sale price of tickets, passes, admissions, fees, or dues of
like kind or character; and
   (K)   (1)   For the purposes of this subchapter, sales of services and
tangible personal property made for the purpose of developing real estate even
though such real estate is intended for resale as real property are hereby
declared to be sales to consumers and users.
      (2)   Sales of services and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies, and equipment made to contractors who use the same in the
performance of any contract, are hereby declared to be sales for resale.
      (3)   Sales of tangible personal property to peddlers, solicitors, and
other salespersons who do not have established places of business shall be
deemed to be sales to consumers or users, and, therefore, subject to the sales
tax provided for herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 7)
§ 34.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Sales Tax Law of the
state, being 68 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   (1)   Sale of raw products from the farm, orchard, or garden where
such sale is made by the producer of such raw products directly to the consumer
or user; gross receipts or gross proceeds derived from the sale of livestock,
poultry products, and dairy products by the producers; exemptions granted by
this division (A) shall not apply when such articles are sold, even though by
the producer thereof, at or from an “established business place” not on a farm;
neither shall this exemption apply unless said articles are produced or grown
within the state; the provisions of this division (A) are intended to exempt
the sale by livestock producers of livestock sold at special livestock sales.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (A) are intended to exempt the sale
of dairy products when sold by a dairy farmer or farmer who owns all of the
cows from which the dairy products he or she sells are produced; the provisions
of this division (A) shall not be construed to exempt sales by florists,
nursery workers, and chicken hatcheries;
   (B)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable, or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or system
and do not operate for a profit which inures to the benefit of any individual
member or members thereof, to the exclusion of other members;
   (C)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except where such organizations may be engaged in business for profit or
savings, competing with other persons engaged in the same or a similar
business;
   (D)   Gross receipts and gross proceeds deriving from the transportation of
school children to and from schools and high schools in motor and other
vehicles;
   (E)   Transportation of person where the fare of each person does not exceed
the limits established by state or local law, or local transportation of person
within the corporate limits of cities and towns, except by taxicabs;
   (F)   Sales of food in public, common, high school, or college cafeterias
and lunch rooms operated primarily for teachers and pupils but not operated
primarily for the public or for profit;
   (G)   Carrier sales made directly to consumers or users of newspapers or any
other periodicals where any individual transaction does not exceed the limits
established by law;
   (H)   Sales of gasoline or motor fuel on which the Motor Fuel Tax, Gasoline
Excise Tax, or Special Funds Tax has been paid to the state;
   (I)   (1)   Sales of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to the Gross Production Tax under the provisions of the laws
of the state.
      (2)   This exemption shall not apply when such products are sold to a
consumer or user for consumption or use, except when used for injection into
the search for the purpose of promoting or facilitating the production of oil
or gas;
   (J)   Sales of motor vehicles, attached optional equipment and accessories
on which the State Motor Vehicles Excise Tax had been paid;
   (K)   Sales by county, district, and state fairs;
   (L)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers, periodicals, and billboards
advertising services, and sales of time for radio and television broadcasts of
advertising;
   (M)   (1)   Sales for resale to persons regularly engaged in the business of
re-selling article purchased, whether within or without this state; provided,
that such sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales
permits have been issued by the State Tax Commission as provided by law.
      (2)   This exemption shall not apply to the sales of articles made to
persons holding permits when such persons purchase items for their use and
which they are not regularly engaged in the business of re-selling; neither
shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible personal property to peddlers,
solicitors, and other salesperson who do not have sales tax permits or
established places of business;
   (N)   Goods, wares, merchandise, or property sold for use in manufacturing,
compounding, processing, assembling, or preparing for sale shall be classified
as having been sold for the purpose of resale or the subject matter of resale,
only in the event:
      (1)   Such goods, wares, merchandise, or property are purchased for the
purpose of being manufactured into a finished article and if it becomes a
recognizable and integral part of the manufactured, compounded, processed,
assembled, or prepared products; or
      (2)   If it is consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling, or preparing products for resale.
   (O)   Sales of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the state, and machinery
and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing
plants already established in the state; provided, that this exemption shall
not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into and directly
used in the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation hereunder;
the term MANUFACTURING OR PROCESSING OPERATIONS are generally recognized as
such;
   (P)   Sales of tangible personal property manufactured in the state, when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state;
   (Q)   Sales of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other persons who, after such sale, owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the State Sales or Use Tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property;
   (R)   (1)   Sales of containers shall be exempt, when sold to a person
regularly engaged in the business of re-selling empty or filled containers, or
when he or she purchases such containers for the purpose of packaging raw
products of farm, garden, or orchard for resale to the consumer or processor.
      (2)   Provided, that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, unless a tax under this subchapter is collected and paid to the tax
collector with respect to each and every transfer by such person of title or
possession of such returnable container, if made to any consumer or user within
this state; nor shall it apply to the sale of labels or other materials
delivered along with items sold, but which are not necessary or absolutely
essential to the sale of the sold merchandise.
   (S)   Exemptions of poultry, livestock feed, and farm machinery, as
prescribed by the State Sales Tax Code, shall be equally applicable as
exemptions from the tax herein levied;
   (T)   (1)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons regularly engaged
for profit in the business of farming and/or ranching.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed as exempting from sales tax
seed which is packaged and sold for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable
gardens.
   (U)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged for profit in
the business of supplying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land
owned or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming and/or ranching;
   (V)   Sales of agriculture seed or plants to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching; this section shall not
be construed as exempting from sales tax seed which is packaged and sold for
use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
   (W)   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching;
   (X)   Gross proceeds from the sale of farm machinery and repair parts
thereto, to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation, or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agriculture, or dairy products produced from such
lands;
   (Y)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the Council
Organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, the Girl Scouts, and the Campfire Girls;
   (Z)   Gross proceeds from the sale of baby chicks, turkey poults, and
starter pullets used in the commercial production of chickens, turkeys, and
eggs; provided, that the purchaser certifies in writing on the copy of the
invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the seller that the pullets will be
used primarily for egg production;
   (AA)   All other applicable exemptions granted by future amendments to the
state’s Sales Tax statutes; and
   (BB)   Any military installation located on federal property which has been
annexed in part or in whole by the town on or after July 1, 1998, except to the
following extent: the sales, use, and occupancy tax ordinances shall be
applicable and extend the part or whole of the military installation on federal
property annexed on or after July 1, 1998, but the applicability of such
ordinances shall be limited to activities on the military installation engaged
in by the private sector involving the sale of goods and services taxable under
the State Sales Tax Code, the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible
property taxable under the State Use Tax Code, and the occupancy of hotel/motel
rooms for rent, whether received in money or otherwise.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 8)
§ 34.005 OTHER EXEMPT TRANSFERS.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax herein levied the
transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the State Sales Tax Law
inclusive, but not exclusive of, the following:
   (A)   From one corporation to another corporation, pursuant to a re-
organization. As used in this division (A), the term RE-ORGANIZATION means:
      (1)   A statutory merger or consolidation; or
      (2)   The acquisition by a corporation of substantially all of the
properties of another corporation, when the consideration is solely all or part
of the voting stock of the acquiring corporation, or of its parent or
subsidiary corporation.
   (B)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution, or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
   (C)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are, immediately after the
transfer, in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received
by each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior
to the transfer;
   (D)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the former
owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer, members
of such partnership, and the interest in the partnership received by each is
substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to the
transfer; and
   (E)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of the partnership.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 9)
§ 34.006 TAX DUE WHEN.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Sales Tax under the Sales
Tax Law of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 10) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.007 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and
in the form and manner provided for payment of State Sales Tax under the Sales
Tax Law of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.008 PRIOR CLAIM.
   Such taxes, penalties, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 12)
§ 34.009 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be prescribed by state law for the purposes of the Sales Tax
Law of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 13)
§ 34.010 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the town to
collect, from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practical to the
average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax levied hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such sales tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 14) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.011 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time, and in the manner, form, and amount
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Sales Tax Law of the
state, and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said Sales Tax Law for collection of State Sales
Tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 15)
§ 34.012 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR as used herein means the department of the town
government or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law
or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied
hereunder.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 16)
§ 34.013 DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217, as amended, is hereby adopted and made part of this
subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and the amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter. The failure or refusal
of any taxpayer to make and transmit the report and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the taxpayer shall forfeit all claim to any discount allowed under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 17)
§ 34.014 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The interest, penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the tax levied hereunder, may be waived or remitted
in the same manner provided for such waiver and remittance, as applied in the
administration of the Sales Tax Law of the state provided for in 68 O.S. § 220.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of said 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 18)
§ 34.015 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUNDS.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the tax levied hereunder may be made to any
taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure
prescribed by the Sales Tax Law of the state, being 68 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., as
set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purposes of this section,
said 68 O.S. § 227 is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 19)
§ 34.016 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files related to
the administration of the tax levied hereunder is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the Sales
Tax Law of the state is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 21)
§ 34.017 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
provided, authorize the Board of Trustees of the town by ordinance duly enacted
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary
and proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 22)
USE TAX ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.030 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town Use Tax
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 51) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.031 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the State Use Tax
Code, 68 O.S. 1981, § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality government or the official
agency of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by
law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 47)
   TOWN. The Town of West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 45)
(Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.032 EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE, OR CONSUMPTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible personal
property purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the
storage, use, or other consumption of such property within the municipality at
the rate of 1% of the purchase price of such property. The additional tax
levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the
property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only property
purchased outside the state; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be
levied against tangible personal property intended solely for use outside the
municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending shipment outside
the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the municipality for the
purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance, or other
service. Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on
the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 31) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.033 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
34.032 shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal property
brought into the municipality by a non-resident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax Code
and this subchapter has been paid by the person using such tangible personal
property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied under the laws of the
state or some other state or municipality of the United States. If any article
of tangible personal property has already been subjected to a tax by the state
or any other state or municipality in respect to sale or use, in an amount less
than the tax imposed by both the State Use Tax Code and this subchapter, the
provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the
difference only between the rate provided by both the State Use Tax Code and
this subchapter, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use
was computed. Provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another
state or municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit
for taxes paid in the state and in the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by person to the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the provisions of §§
34.001 through
34.017. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as
such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the provisions of §§
34.001 through
34.017;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought in the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use and enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and/or
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
the town for feeding or for breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 32) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.034 TAX DUE WHEN.
   The tax levied by §
34.032 is due and payable at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for
payment of the State Use Tax under the Use Tax Code of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 33) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.035 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 34) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.036 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state, and making sales of tangible personal property from a
place of business outside of the state for use in the town shall, at the time
of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by §
34.032 from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the
manner and form prescribed by the State Tax Commission, if the State Tax
Commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor
shall list with the State Tax Commission the name and address of all of his or
her agents operating in the town, and the location of any and all distribution
of sales houses or offices or other places of business with the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 35)
   (B)   The State Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax levied by §
34.032 by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within the
state but who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in the town and
by the out-of-state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining
places of business both within and without the state and making sales of
tangible personal property at such out-of-state places of business for use in
the town. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes, but the State Tax Commission in such manner and subject to
such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it
shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all
tangible personal property sold to his or her knowledge for use within the
town. Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time, the State
Tax Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from
the person using such property in the town. Provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the town, by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s
vehicle, transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable Municipality
Sales Tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported
under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 36)
(Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.037 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Any permit issued pursuant to §
34.036(B) is subject to revocation if the retailer or vendor holding such
permit fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or of the
Streamline Sales and Use Tax Administration Act, being 68 O.S. §§ 1354.14 et
seq., or any order, rules, or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 37) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.038 RENUMERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the State Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said Code for the collection of State Use Taxes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 38) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.039 DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal
of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to
be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 39) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.040 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in the administration of the State Use Tax provided in 68 O.S. §
227, and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of said 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 40) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.041 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUNDS.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the Municipality Use Tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the State Use Tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 41) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.042 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the Municipality Use Tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the State
Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the Municipality Use
Tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 43) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.043 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 44) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.044 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax
Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 48) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.045 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code are for the purpose of this subchapter
hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirements for an
additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 49) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
§ 34.046 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the
municipality for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 50) (Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
§ 34.060 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Town of West Siloam Springs
Hotel Tax Ordinance of 2010.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 52)
§ 34.061 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business by the State Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this subchapter,
hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 53)
§ 34.062 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION.
   This subchapter shall become and be effective on or after November 1, 2010,
subject to the approval of the registered voters of the town voting on the same
in the manner prescribed by law; provided, that upon approval of the voters as
required above, this subchapter shall remain in effect and not be repealed
unless repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the town, voting to
repeal same in the manner as required by its approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 54)
§ 34.063 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town of West Siloam Springs.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which three or more rooms are used for the accommodation of
transient guests, whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term
shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or
courts, lodging houses, bed and breakfast inns, inns, rooming houses, trailer
houses, trailer motels, apartments, and sleeping rooms not occupied by
“permanent residents,” and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping
accommodations or space are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not
include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, assisted living centers, senior
care facilities, university dormitories, or other educational or charitable
institutions.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to use or possess, any room
or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings,
or the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the
room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to use or possess any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel in the town, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sub-lessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM.
      (1)   Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which is available for or let out for use, or possessed for any purpose other
than a place of assembly.
      (2)   As used herein, PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or space which is
not capable of being occupied for lodging purposes and which is used for
educational, recreational, or amusement purposes and shall include: dance
halls; cabarets; night clubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or
private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties, or weddings; lodge and meeting
halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling,
and table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 55)
§ 34.064 USE OF FUNDS.
   Funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall be set
aside and used exclusively for one or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Encouraging, promoting, and fostering conventions, conferences, and
tourism development in the town, including, without limitation, the development
of utility facilities infrastructure, parks, and other public facilities and
amenities for use in such encouragement and promotion;
   (B)   Promotion of cultural, recreational, commercial, industrial,
educational, and economic events or developments for the town; and/or
   (C)   Solicitation and financial support of visitor attractions, events,
tourism, conferences, conventions, and meetings in the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 56)
§ 34.065 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 5% of the gross rental receipts
derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code upon the service
of furnishing rooms by hotels or motels within the town, except that the tax
shall not be assessed where the rent is less than $5 per day. This excise tax
shall be in addition to any existing sales taxes imposed by the town or the
state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 57)
§ 34.066 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Officers, agents, representatives, or employees of any government,
corporation, organization, or association that is legally exempted from State
Sales Taxation or Town Sales Taxation and whose occupancy of the room is
required in connection with the official business or affairs of said
government, corporation, organization, or association, shall be exempt from the
tax levied by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 58)
   (B)   Any person claiming to be except from the tax shall display proof of
exemption and tax identification number certifying that the corporation,
organization, or association with which he or she is affiliated is exempt from
the tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 59)
§ 34.067 TAX TO BE DESIGNATED.
   The operator shall separately designate, charge, and show all taxes on all
bills, statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of
rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 60) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.068 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION.
   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the town for the tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 61) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.069 DISCOUNT.
   In order to compensate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports,
and remitting the tax when due, a discount equal to that allowed by the State
Tax Commission for the collection of sales tax shall be allowed upon all taxes
paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 62)
§ 34.070 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator required to make a return and pay any
tax under this subchapter to keep and preserve suitable records of the gross
daily rentals together with other pertinent records and documents which may be
necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder and such other records
as will substantiate and prove the accuracy of such returns. All records shall
remain in the town and be preserved for a period of three years, unless the
Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, has authorized their destruction or disposal at
any earlier date, and shall be open to examination at any time by the Clerk/
Treasurer or by any of his or her duly authorized agents. The burden of proving
that a sale was not a taxable sale shall be upon the operator who makes the
sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 63) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.071 RETURNS.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable to the Clerk/
Treasurer on the first day of each month, except as herein provided, by any
person liable for the payment of any tax due under this subchapter. For the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of the tax payable under this subchapter, it
shall be the duty of all operators, on or before the fifteenth day of each
month, to deliver to the Clerk/Treasurer, upon forms prescribed and furnished
by him or her, returns, under oath, showing the gross receipts or gross
proceeds arising from rents received from occupancy of hotel or motel rooms
during the preceding calendar month. Such returns shall show such further
information as the Clerk/Treasurer may require to correctly compute and collect
the tax herein levied. In addition to the information required on returns, the
Clerk/Treasurer may request and the operator shall furnish any information
deemed necessary for a correct computation of the tax levied herein. Such
operator shall compute and remit to the Clerk/Treasurer the required tax due
for the preceding calendar month. The remittance or remittances of the tax
shall accompany the returns herein required. If not paid on or before the
fifteenth day of such month, the tax shall be delinquent after such date;
provided, that no interest or penalty shall be charged on such return filed on
or before the twentieth day of such month.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer may permit or require returns to be made by
shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as he or she may specify. The
form of return shall be prescribed by the Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain
such information as he or she may deem necessary for the proper administration
of this subchapter. The Clerk/Treasurer may require amended returns to be filed
within 20 days after notice, which amended return shall contain the information
specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 64) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.072 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Clerk/Treasurer the tax imposed by this subchapter upon the
rents included in such return, as well as all other moneys collected by the
operator acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 65) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.073 BOND REQUIRED.
   Where the Clerk/Treasurer believes that any operator is about to cease
business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other
similar reason, he or she deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under
this subchapter, he or she may require such operator to file with the town a
bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state
in such amount as the Clerk/Treasurer may fix to secure the payment of any tax
or penalties and interest due, or which may become due, from such operator. In
the event that the Clerk/Treasurer determines that an operator is to file such
bond, he or she shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of
bond required, which shall in no event exceed twice the amount of the sum in
controversy. The operator shall file such bond within five days after receiving
such notice unless, within such five days, the operator shall request in
writing a hearing before the Board of Trustees, at which time the necessity and
amount of the bond shall be determined by the Board of Trustees. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within 15 days
thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the Clerk/Treasurer or
cash in such amount as he or she may prescribe may be deposited with the Clerk/
Treasurer, who may at any time after five days notice to the depositor apply
them to any tax and/or penalties due, and for that purpose, the securities may
be sold at private or public sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 66) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.074 ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If a return required by this subchapter is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the Clerk/Treasurer from such information as may be obtainable and, if
necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as
number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of
accommodations and services, number of employees, or types of accommodations
and services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person against whom it is assessed, within 90 days after the
giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the Board of
Trustees for a hearing or unless the Clerk/Treasurer, upon his or her own
initiative, shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the Board of Trustees
shall give written notice of its determination to the person against whom the
tax is assessed, and such determination shall be final.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 67)
§ 34.075 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Procedure. The Clerk/Treasurer shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously, illegally, or unconstitutionally collected if written application
to the Clerk/Treasurer for such refund shall be made within 90 days from the
date of payment thereof. For like causes and in the same period, a refund may
be made upon the initiative and the order of the Clerk/Treasurer. Whenever a
refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such
application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was imposed and who
has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by the person who
has collected and paid such tax to the Clerk/Treasurer, provided that the
application is made within 90 days of the payment by the occupant to the
operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he or she
has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is
made. The Clerk/Treasurer, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow
credit therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   (B)   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund, the Clerk/
Treasurer may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such
investigation as he or she deems necessary. After making a determination as to
the refund, the Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice thereof to the applicant.
Such determination shall be final unless the applicant, within 90 days after
such notice, shall apply in writing to the Board of Trustees for a hearing.
After such hearing, the Board of Trustees shall give written notice of its
decision to the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 68)
§ 34.076 NOTICES.
   Any notice provided for under this subchapter shall be deemed to have been
given when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or
deposited in the United States Mail addressed to the last-known address of the
operator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 69)
§ 34.077 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this subchapter shall be exclusive remedies
available to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by the
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 70)
§ 34.078 CLERK/TREASURER; POWERS.
   In addition to all other powers granted to the Clerk/Treasurer, he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered:
   (A)   To make, adopt, and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
collection of taxes pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding 60 days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   (C)   To delegate his or her functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the town;
   (D)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise, and readjust the taxes imposed
by this subchapter; and
   (E)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and non-taxable
rents.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 71)
§ 34.079 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES; CERTIFICATES OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the Clerk/Treasurer a registration
certificate in a form prescribed by said Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after
the effective date of this subchapter or, in the case of operators commencing
business or opening new hotels after such effective date, within three days
after such commencement or opening.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall, within five days after the filing of such
certificate, issue without charge to each operator a certificate of authority
empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates
thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate of authority shall state
the hotel to which it is applicable.
   (C)   Such certificates of authority shall be permanently displayed by the
operator in such manner that it may be seen and come to the notice of all
occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall be non-
assignable and non-transferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
Clerk/Treasurer upon the cessation of business at the hotel, or upon its sale
or transfer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 72)
§ 34.080 ADMINISTRATION.
   One percent of the gross receipts derived from taxes collected pursuant to
this subchapter shall be retained by the office of the Clerk/Treasurer for the
purpose of administering and collecting the tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 73)
§ 34.081 INTEREST.
   If any tax levied by this subchapter becomes delinquent, the person
responsible and liable for such tax shall pay a penalty of 10% on such unpaid
tax and shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at the rate of 1.5% per month on
the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency until said unpaid balance is
paid in full.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 74)
§ 34.082 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the tax is legislatively recognized and declared; and to
protect the same, the provision of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State Sales Tax Code,
and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of this subchapter as if herein
set forth.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 75)
§ 34.083 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly
enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the
tax herein provided shall not be charged without approval of the qualified
voters of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 77)
§ 34.084 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 78)
§ 34.085 PAYMENT OF LEGAL FEES.
   In the event a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction is caused to be
filed, either on behalf of or against the town, and said cause is the direct
result of the conditions, stipulations, or requirements hereinbefore set forth,
any amount necessary to pay all legal fees incurred by the town, as well as
fines or penalties imposed against it, shall be set aside from the moneys
authorized to be collected hereby in payment thereof, regardless of whether
said cause was for the purpose of enforcing or defending the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 80)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects, or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied under §
34.010, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or part of the tax levied
hereunder, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax levied hereunder, or
paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at price
including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 14)
   (C)   In addition to all civil penalties provided for by §§
34.001 through
34.017, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances as herein required, or the making of false and fraudulent reports
and remittances for the purpose of avoiding or escaping of any tax or a portion
thereof rightfully due under the provisions of §§
34.001 through
34.017 shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum amounts provided for
elsewhere in this town code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 2, § 20)
   (D)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
34.030 through
34.046, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under §§
34.030 through
34.046 shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending taxpayer
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs. Each day of
noncompliance with this subchapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 3, § 42)
   (E)   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false of fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or a portion thereof
rightfully due under §§
34.060 through
34.085 shall be an offense against the town, punishable upon conviction by a
fine of not more than $200 per day. Each day of such failure or refusal shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 76)
(Ord. 9-2-86-1, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Municipal Water Department created
   
50.02   Mandatory use
   
50.03   Tampering with or injuring municipal water system
   
50.04   Water rates, fees, and charges; general
   
50.05   Water and sewer rates, fees, and charges; schedule
   
50.06   Permits for water wells
   
50.07   Water shortages
§ 50.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Municipal Water Department, the head of
which is the Town Clerk/Treasurer, who shall have supervision and control of
the Municipal Water System and who shall have all of those powers granted the
Town Clerk/Treasurer by the provisions of §
31.15.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is further authorized to make and issue
written regulations for the management and operation of the Municipal Water
System, which regulations shall be approved and adopted by a majority vote of
the Board of Trustees for the town at any regular or special meeting of that
body.
      (2)   Upon such approval and adoption, the regulations promulgated by the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall have the same force and effect as any ordinance of
the town and shall be enforceable as such.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2, § 1)
§ 50.02 MANDATORY USE.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, education, recreation, or other purposes, situated
within the town and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which
there is now located, or may in the future be located, a municipal water line,
are hereby required, at their expense, to connect their facility with the
proper municipal water line (in accordance with all municipal requirements) and
pay all municipal fees and use charges therefor, within 120 days after the date
of official municipal notice to do so; provided, that the municipal water line
is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be hereinafter unlawful for any person to maintain or
establish a private water well to serve a facility, unless said person shall
first be connected to the Municipal Water System and pay the monthly water fees
and charges; provided, that said person also meets all the requirements for
mandatory hook-up established in division (A) above.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall make any connections with any municipal
water line without first having made application therefor to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, and without first having paid the established fee.
   (D)   Where a municipal water line does not lie within 300 feet of the
property line, or is not scheduled to be placed within 300 feet of the property
line in the near future (one to five years), an individual may utilize or
establish a private water well without connection to the Municipal Water System
and therefore, without payment of the Municipal Water System fees and charges.
   (E)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to persons currently
being served directly by an existing Rural Water District.
   (F)   All water mains, water lines, fire hydrants, water meters, and any
appurtenances thereto, are the exclusive property of the town and shall not be
tampered with without the consent and supervision of the West Siloam Springs
Municipal Authority.
   (G)   All water main extensions:
      (1)   Shall be no less than six inches in diameter and shall be looped
whenever possible and feasible;
      (2)   Shall be engineered by a Professional Engineer licensed in the
state;
      (3)   Plans must be submitted for review and approval to the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer in hard copy form and digital PDF format. Upon
approval of the plans, the plans are then to be submitted to the State
Department of Environmental Quality for its review and approval;
      (4)   All water main piping shall be class C900 SDR18 minimum with
pressure rating of not less than 150 PSI and with outside diameters equivalent
to ductile iron piping;
      (5)   All lines with intersecting tees shall be valved in all directions;
all tees, valves, and mechanical joints shall be secured with Mega Lug flanges
and properly backed with concrete;
      (6)   Main line valves shall be spaced so that a single break will
require no more than 1,320 feet of line to be removed from service;
      (7)   Fire hydrants shall be Mueller Centurion 51/43 way. Fire hydrant
spacing shall be no more than 750 feet in residential areas and 1,500 feet in
rural areas. All fire hydrants shall be installed with a hydrant valve,
restrained to the main and from the valve to the hydrant with a swivel sleeve;
      (8)   All road bore casings shall be steel or poly pipe; all main line
piping in the road bore shall be self-restrained with casing spacers;
      (9)   All water mains shall be bedded with spacing or limestone screening
six inches below the piping and six inches above, with a minimum of 30 inches
of cover;
      (10)   Tracer wire of 12 gauge minimum shall be installed and brought to
the surface at every valve box. All service lines greater than 15 feet shall
have tracer wire from the main to the meter yoke; and
      (11)   No water main shall be placed in service until a pressure test has
been performed following DEQ specifications, and two safe consecutive
bacteriological samples taken within a 24-hour period. All tests shall be
performed in the presence of the West Siloam Springs Municipal Authority.
   (H)   The town shall extend service lines 50 feet or to the property line,
whichever shall be closest. All service lines crossing any street shall be
sleeved, and any road bore or street cut shall be paid for by the property
owner. Service lines shall be Drisco Tube or equivalent with pressure rating of
200 PSI. Only one residence shall be connected to any one meter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way
tamper with, any portion of the Municipal Water System, or to turn the water
off or on from any main at any time or place, unless said person is duly
authorized to do so by the West Siloam Springs Municipal Authority.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 WATER RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES; GENERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50.
§ 50.05 WATER AND SEWER RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES; SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees and rates for all customers receiving water and/or sewer service
from the Town of West Siloam Springs shall be as follows effective January 1,
2025:
      (1)   Water rates.
         (a)   Residential inside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons) $30.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 9,000 gallons    $5.07
Next 9,001 and up                      $6.24
 
         (b)   Commercial inside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons)  $45.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 9,000 gallons     $6.36
Next 9,001 gallons to 949,000 gallons   $7.76
Next 949,001 gallons to 960,000 gallons $8.35
Over 960,001 gallons and up             $9.75
 
         (c)   Residential outside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons) $55.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 9,000 gallons    $6.33
Next 9,001 and up                      $7.80
 
         (d)   Commercial outside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons)  $65.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 9,000 gallons     $7.94
Next 9,001 gallons to 949,000 gallons   $9.70
Next 949,001 gallons to 960,000 gallons $10.40
Over 960,001 gallons and up             $12.20
 
         (e)   Tap fees.
 
Three-quarter inch meter service $1,500.00
One-inch meter service           $1,800.00
Two-inch meter service           $4,300.00
Sewer tap                        $100.00
 
      (2)   Sewer rates.
         (a)   Residential inside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons) $25.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 2,000 gallons    $6.65
Next 2,001 gallons to 3,000 gallons    $6.70
Next 3,001 gallons to 5,000 gallons    $7.15
Next 5,001 gallons and up              $9.29
 
         (b)   Commercial inside city limits.
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons) $30.00
Next 1,001 gallons to 2,000 gallons    $7.25
Next 2,001 gallons to 3,000 gallons    $8.20
Next 3,001 gallons to 5,000 gallons    $9.05
Next 5,001 gallons and up              $9.75
 
         (c)   Outside city limits (residential and commercial).
 
Minimum (includes first 1,000 gallons) $45.00
Next 1,001 and up                      $9.75
 
         (d)   Bulk water rate.
 
Per 1,000 gallons $25.00
 
         (e)   Late and re-connect fee.
 
Late fee       $20.00
Re-connect fee $35.00
 
         (f)   Deposit fee.
 
Owner  $200.00
Renter $250.00
No account will be opened without a signed contract by owner of property.
 
    (B)   Any account having multiple structures serviced by a single meter
shall be charged the minimum monthly rate for each structure.
   (C)   The size of the meter required for each connection to the Municipal
Water System shall be determined by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Tap fees shall be paid in full before any new connections are made to
the Municipal Water System.
   (E)   For any connection requiring pipe connection and meter service equal
to, but no greater than, two inches, the customer shall be responsible for a
$4,300 tap fee plus the cost of installation by a licensed plumber and the
costs of any necessary road boring. The customer shall be solely responsible
for hiring a qualified, licensed, and bonded plumber. The Director of Public
Works or his/her designated representative shall be present during the
installation and tapping. The Director of Public Works shall inspect and
approve the installation before water is delivered to the customer.
   (F)   For any connection requiring a pipe connection and meter greater than
two inches, the customer shall be responsible for (i) cost of installation by a
licensed, qualified, and bonded plumber, (ii) the cost of any necessary road
boring, and (iii) the cost of materials, including but not limited to, the
meter, meter vault, bypass valve, backflow preventer and tapping valve. The
customer shall be solely responsible for hiring a qualified, licensed, and
bonded plumber. The Director of Public Works or his/her designated
representative shall be present during the installation and tapping. The
Director of Public Works shall inspect and approve the installation before
water is delivered to the customer.
   (G)   All new meter connections shall conform to all applicable state and
federal laws and regulations, the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality, and the ordinances of the Town of
West Siloam Springs.
   (H)   The West Siloam Springs Volunteer Fire Department shall be charged the
same rate as commercial accounts within city limits.
   (I)   No new accounts will be opened until the owner of the property
receiving water service signs a customer contract with the Town of West Siloam
Springs.
(Ord. 2022-02-01, passed 2-21-2022; Ord. 2024-12-01, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 50.06 PERMITS FOR WATER WELLS.
   (A)   In order to protect the town’s water supply and the financial security
of the Municipal Water Supply System, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to have or drill a new water well within the corporate
limits of the town without first having obtained a permit to do so from the
office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Said permit shall be issued, for a fee to
be established by motion of the Town Board of Trustees, upon written agreement
by the applicant to the following conditions:
      (1)   There be no resale of water obtained from any well;
      (2)   Water from any well drilled in the town shall be for use only by
the individual property owner drilling said water well;
      (3)   No cross-connections shall be allowed to any component of the
Municipal Water System, including water lines, on private property, which are
connected to the Municipal Water Supply; and
      (4)   Wells shall meet all local, county, and State Department of Health
requirements.
   (B)   No permits shall be issued for any type of commercial use or
commercial water use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 WATER SHORTAGES.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment, or distribution capacity, or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees, by majority
vote thereof at any regular, special, or emergency meeting, are hereby
authorized to restrict or prohibit the use of water from the Municipal Water
System.
   (B)   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees
(by majority vote thereof at any regular, special, or emergency meeting)
reasonably determine that the Municipal Water System is unable, or will, within
60 days, become unable, to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the
users thereof, including adequate fire protection.
   (C)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor or the
Town Board of Trustees shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and
setting out with particularity an order restricting use of water from the
Municipal System. Such an order may:
      (1)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and non-discriminatory scheme; and
      (2)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor or the Town Board of
Trustees deems necessary.
   (D)   The proclamation required by division (C) above shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the town or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within 24 hours after the
emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the proclamation in
ten prominent places in the town. The emergency shall be in full force and
effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this division (D) is
sufficient to affect the emergency.
   (E)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including, but not limited to, electronic means or by mail. The emergency shall
be in full force and effect upon such notice; provided, that if any such means
is other than that required in division (D) above, the proclamation shall be
republished in accordance thereof within 24 hours of the first notice.
   (F)   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue, and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for 30 days or until such time as the Mayor or
the Town Board of Trustees shall cause to be published a proclamation that the
emergency has ended, whichever is shorter, unless said Town Board, by
resolution approved by a majority of all its members, extends the proclamation.
   (G)   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor or the
Town Board of Trustees, shall have the right to present the matter to the next
regular or special meeting of the Town Board or to any emergency session called
to discuss the water emergency. The Town Board may exempt such aggrieved
person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order, upon a
showing that compliance creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or
safety. The ruling of the Town Board, by a majority vote of all its members,
shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked
by action of the Town Board, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2, § 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING, STOPPING, AND LOADING REGULATIONS
      
73.   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Authority to adopt and enforce regulations
   
70.03   Obedience to chapter
   
70.04   Duties of police officers and firefighters
   
70.05   Accident reports; leaving an accident scene
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Public officials and employees
   
70.08   Necessity of signs
   
70.09   Construction zones
   
70.10   Persons working on streets
   
70.11   Riding or clinging to vehicles
   
70.12   Dangerous objects on streets
   
70.13   Pedestrians
   
70.14   Citation tags; failure to comply
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.25   Installation of traffic control devices
   
70.26   Specifications for traffic control devices
   
70.27   Turn signs and indicators
   
70.28   Designation and marking of one-way streets
   
70.29   Marking of traffic lanes
   
70.30   Designation and marking of crosswalks
   
70.31   Unauthorized signs or devices
   
70.32   Classification of streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Highway Traffic Safety Code (47 O.S., as amended, and every
ten years’ recodification thereof) is hereby adopted and incorporated in this
code as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of establishing locally
appropriate rules and regulations for the control of traffic within said
municipality.
   (B)   The definitions of words used in this chapter shall be the same as
those definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 through 1-186 (as amended).
   (C)   The office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain at least three
copies of the current State Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted by this code,
on file in the office of said Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 1) (Ord. 17-12-2, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY TO ADOPT AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby empowered to adopt and provide
for the enforcement of regulations necessary to make the provisions of this
traffic code and any other traffic or related ordinances of the town effective,
and to adopt and provide for the enforcement of temporary regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions.
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer, firefighter, or
any other authorized municipal employee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to authorize
or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her, or its name, to be
driven or be parked in violation of any provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child or ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this traffic code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 101) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and any police officers to
enforce the traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to traffic in said municipality, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with other municipal
officials in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon said police officers by this traffic code and any other traffic or related
ordinances of said municipality.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and all assistants are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand, or signal, in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances. In the event of a fire, other emergency, or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist police
officers in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 15)
§ 70.05 ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT SCENE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person, or damage to any
vehicle or other property to an apparent extent of more than $300, shall, as
soon as practicable, report such accident to the Chief of Police or to the
Police Department, as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded
to the State Department of Public Safety in accordance with state law), shall
be deemed compliance with this section.
   (B)   Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined by current state law,
shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm,
may exercise the following privileges:
      (1)   Park or stand (irrespective of the provisions of this traffic
code);
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign (slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation);
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits, so long as this action does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to any authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible
and/or visual signals, except that an authorized emergency vehicle, operated as
a police vehicle, need not be equipped with, or display, a red light visible
from the front of the vehicle.
   (C)   Upon the immediate approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making
required use of audible and/or visual signals, or of a police vehicle properly
and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection, or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible
manner, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (D)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
person using the highway, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by, or used in the service of, the United States Government, and
any state, county, municipal, or other governmental unit or agency, as well as
to other vehicles; it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
chapter or by state law.
   (B)   This traffic code shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the National Guard when performing military duty.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provisions of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 103)
§ 70.09 CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Municipal personnel, contractors, or utility companies, while
repairing or improving the streets of the town, or when installing, improving,
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized, subject to control by the Town Board of Trustees, to close any
street, or section thereof, to traffic during such activity and shall erect, or
cause to be erected, proper control devices and barricades to warn the public
that such street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic control devices or barricades have been erected,
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle under, over, around,
or through such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter
the closed area (except that the provisions of this division (B) shall not
apply to persons while engaged in such construction, maintenance, and repair,
to persons having their places of residence or business within such closed
area, who may travel through such area at their own risk).
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street, utility
line, or facility is being performed, and the street is not closed to traffic
in accord with this section, the municipal personnel, contractor, or utility
company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every person
using such street shall obey such warning devices.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 107) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code, except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated,
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor
vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in construction,
maintenance, or repair of public utilities; provided, that all highway and
public utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs,
signals, devices, or flaggers.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street, utility
line, or facility is being performed within the municipal limits of the town
and the street is not closed to traffic in accord with this section and a
maximum safe, careful, and prudent speed shall have been determined by the town
on any streets or town detours during the period of the construction,
maintenance, or repairs and shall have plainly posted at each terminus thereof
and at not less than each half mile along the route thereof the determined
maximum speed, no person shall drive any vehicle upon the portion of the road
or the road detour or highway or the highway detour at a speed in excess of the
speed so determined and posted. Violation of the posted speed limit in the
repair, maintenance, or construction zone shall result in the doubling of the
appropriate fine. For purposes of this section, REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, OR
CONSTRUCTION ZONE means any location where repair, maintenance, or construction
work is actually in progress and workers present.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 RIDING OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to any
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or persons riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboard,
sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 DANGEROUS OBJECTS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let
fall and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass,
stick, or other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property, or
render a street unsafe for traffic.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals, but at all
other places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those
restrictions in this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 8, § 91)
   (B)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 8, § 92)
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety, or walk or
run into the path of a vehicle.
      (3)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the forgoing provisions of this section, every driver
of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 8, § 93)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this traffic code, by delivering citation tags to
violators or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in
violation of this chapter, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of
which the violation occurred. Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the
charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the
violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within ten days, or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon.
Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator, to take
said person into custody, or to file a complaint against any violator at any
time.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that police officers use
serially numbered citation tags furnished by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and said
Town Board may also regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
   (C)   If a violator of any provision of this chapter who has been given a
citation tag as provided above, fails to appear in accordance with instructions
of such tag, the Chief of Police, or an authorized agent, shall send a letter
or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle involved, informing said
person of the violation, warning said person to appear, and directing that, in
the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period of five days, a
complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing
in this section shall abridge the power to file a complaint prior to the
expiration of such time.
   (D)   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person, or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and said
Judge shall issue a warrant for said person’s arrest.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 13) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.25 INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have traffic control signs, signals, and
devices placed and maintained, as required under the ordinances of the town to
make the provisions of such ordinances effective.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 51)
§ 70.26 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
manual and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs
and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the municipality.
   (B)   All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this traffic code shall be official traffic control
devices.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 52)
§ 70.27 TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left, or
U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections.
      (2)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same shall be plainly
indicated on said signs.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected, indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red of stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 53) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Board of Trustees designates any street, alley, or
part thereof as a one-way street or alley, said Town Board shall have signs
placed, giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 54)
§ 70.29 MARKING OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes
marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes, except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement, or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 56) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF CROSSWALKS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the authority to designate, by
appropriate devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 57)
§ 70.31 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display, upon or in view of any
highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement, upon
private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the Town Board of Trustees is hereby
empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 58) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board of Trustees may adopt, by resolution, a street
classification system for the town.
      (2)   Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall be the duty of said
Town Board to have stop signs placed and maintained, or if deemed more
appropriate at any intersection, yield signs, on each and every street involved
in the implementation of the classification system (unless traffic at any
intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control signals).
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to determine and
designate intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      (1)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      (2)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   (C)   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is not a crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the nearest line of
the intersection roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 5, § 59)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Court costs shall be $52 per citation to be assessed against those
persons determined by the Municipal Court of the town to be in violation of the
ordinances, town code, or other resolutions, rules, and regulations of the
town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 118)
   (B)   All offenses for which citations are issued for appearance in the Town
Municipal Court shall be subject to the payment of court costs set forth in
division (A) above. Such court costs do not include bonds, fines, or other
assessments otherwise imposed by the laws, codes, ordinances, and resolutions
of the state or the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 119)
   (C)   The amount of court costs imposed upon citations shall be subject to
amendment by the Board of Trustees by resolution of said Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 120)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, performs any unlawful act as defined in this chapter, or fails to
perform any act required in the chapter, shall be guilty of any offense and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed the limits
established in §
32.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 10, § 121)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Stopped school bus
   
71.03   Driving by unauthorized persons
   
71.04   Reckless driving
   
71.05   Driving under the influence
   
71.06   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
71.07   Following too closely
   
71.08   Backing
   
71.09   Impeding left lane
   
71.10   Funerals
   
71.11   Eluding a police officer
   
71.12   Following fire apparatus
   
71.13   Crossing fire hose
   
71.14   Obstruction of driver’s view
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the town at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing (including, among other things, the
condition of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility, amount of traffic,
presence of pedestrians, and any obstruction of view).
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle, except an authorized emergency
vehicle (as provided in this chapter), at a speed greater than:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph on any street adjacent to any school, or in any
school zone, between 6:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on days when school is in session,
unless otherwise posted; and
      (2)   Thirty-five mph on other streets and on streets adjacent to schools
at other times than that specified in division (C)(1) above, unless otherwise
posted.
   (D)   The speed limit on Cedar Drive in the town from the intersection of
Cedar Drive and White Oak to the intersection of Cedar Drive and Moseley Road
hereby is reduced from 55 mph to 45 mph.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by state law) when
such bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging or taking on passengers, and
is displaying flashing red lights, as required by state law.
   (B)   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus (as
described in division (A) above), regardless of the direction of said approach.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 16) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle owned by, or under, said person’s control, to be
driven upon any of the streets or highways of the town by any person who is not
authorized, under the laws of the state, to operate such vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 18) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner,
without regard for the safety of persons, property, or the lawful use of the
streets.
   (B)   Such person shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 19) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs, or other controlled, dangerous substances, to drive,
or be in actual physical control of, any vehicle within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 20) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 VEHICLES NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk
area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon, and the condition of, the roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 22) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane. No extended backing shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 2, § 23) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 IMPEDING LEFT LANE.
   (A)   Upon a roadway which is divided into four or more lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the left lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle.
   (B)   Provided however, this section shall not prohibit driving in the left
lane when traffic conditions, flow, or road configuration, such as the
potential of merging traffic, require the use of the left lane to maintain safe
traffic conditions.
(Ord. 17-12-2, passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 FUNERALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 111) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 ELUDING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who
has received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or a siren) from
a police officer driving a motor vehicle, with insignia showing the same to be
an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car, directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully increase his or her speed or
extinguish his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, to
willfully attempt, in any other manner, to elude the police officer, or to
elude such police officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 112) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than when on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm, closer than
500 feet, or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 113) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of any Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department when laid down on any
street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 114) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or side of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 115) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The fine for violation of §
71.09 shall be $160, not including any court costs and assessments, which is
subject to amendment by the Board of Trustees by resolution of said Board.
(Ord. 17-12-2, passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING, STOPPING, AND LOADING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Stopping or parking prohibited in specific places
   
72.02   Angle parking
   
72.03   Standing or parking close to curb; brakes
   
72.04   Parking on private property; truck parking
   
72.05   Presumption of reference to illegal parking
   
72.06   Loading zones
§ 72.01 STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with state law, ordinance, the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, or in an emergency
situation, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk or between the sidewalk and any street;
      (2)   In front of, or obstructing, any public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (except in an officially marked
parking space);
      (5)   Within or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of the driveway of any fire station;
      (7)   Near any street work or excavation, when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double-parking or double-stopping);
      (9)   In an alley where less than ten feet of the roadway will be left
available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to establish parking
time limits, and to prohibit parking on designated streets and parts of streets
by having appropriate signs placed thereon.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle
in any parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the
public is invited, or on public property that is designated and posted as a
reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons,
unless such person has a physical disability insignia (consistent with the
provisions of 47 O.S.) and such insignia is displayed as provided in said 47
O.S. (or other regulations adopted pursuant thereto).
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 71) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets, and parts
of streets, angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets
marked or signed.
   (B)   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings, or outside of
the area enclosed by said markings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 72) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; BRAKES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the right-hand curb; provided, that every vehicle stopped or parked
upon the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs,
shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the left-hand curb.
   (B)   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 73) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer
upon the posted private property of another without first obtaining permission
from the person in charge of such property, except where said placing or
parking is involuntary.
   (B)   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause any
motor vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours,
to be removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The Police
Department or any police officer is also authorized to remove any unauthorized
vehicles from private property upon direction of the owner of the property or
persons in charge of the property. The town, any landowner, or person in charge
of the property, shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to the
trespassing vehicle or trailer under the terms of this section, while the same
is trespassing, while it is being removed from said property, or while it is in
storage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 74) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 PRESUMPTION OF REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or ordinance
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 75)
§ 72.06 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall have
appropriate signs placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the same authority,
such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   When such a loading zone is established upon the request of any
person, firm, or corporation, the Town Board of Trustees shall not have signs
placed until the applicant has paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer an amount of
money estimated by said Town Board to be adequate to reimburse the town for all
costs of establishing the signing of the same.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as freight curb loading zone,
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 6, § 76) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Vehicles; insurance and licensing required
   
73.02   Inspection of vehicles
   
73.03   Motorcycles
   
73.04   Seat belt usage; child passenger restraint system
Vehicle Restrictions
   
73.15   Vehicle weight restrictions on certain streets
   
73.16   Injurious or obstructive vehicles; oversized vehicle permits
   
73.17   Size and weight of vehicles; truck routes
   
73.18   Mufflers and cut-outs
   
73.19   Prohibition of use of “Jake” brakes
Impoundment of Vehicles
   
73.30   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
73.31   Place of impoundment
   
73.32   Duration of impoundment
   
73.33   Redemption and release of vehicle
   
73.34   Authority to impound vehicles
   
73.35   Causes of impoundment
   
73.36   Abandoned, wrecked, or non-operating vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 VEHICLES; INSURANCE AND LICENSING REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as
required by law upon any street within the town. It shall also be unlawful to
fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner
prohibited by law, or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by
law upon any street within said town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of
the town unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid license plate
thereon, as required by state law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle, or any combination of
such vehicles licensed by the State Tax Commission, unless said vehicle or
vehicles bears a valid, official state inspection sticker issued by an official
inspection station licensed by the State Department of Public Safety; provided,
that such sticker is required by current state law.
   (D)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
said vehicle within the boundaries of the town shall carry in such vehicle at
all times a current owner’s security verification form (or an equivalent form
which has been used by the Department of Public Safety) listing the vehicle,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof, upon request, for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, such form shall be
shown, upon request, to any person affected by said collision.
   (E)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form (or an equivalent form) from the Department of
Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of a business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety (which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy);
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
   (F)   The following definitions shall apply to divisions (D) and (E) above
and (G), (H), (I), and (J) below.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state, as found in 47
O.S. §§ 7-116 et seq.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY OF LIABILITY INSURANCE. Shall insure the named person
against loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
operation or use of any motor vehicle not owned by said person, subject to the
same limits of liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description, or by appropriate
reference, all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be
granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in this division (F), using an insured vehicle with
the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation, or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing law; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204, as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board of
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the Compulsory Insurance Law of the state. Said form shall contain the
following minimum information:
         (a)   Name and address of carrier;
         (b)   Name and address where security may be verified, if other than
carrier;
         (c)   Name of insured;
         (d)   Notice that an owner’s policy has been issued pursuant to
Compulsory Insurance Law;
         (e)   Year, make, and at least the last three digits of VIN of each
insured vehicle (not required if owner’s form states “fleet coverage”);
         (f)   Inclusive dates liability policy is in effect; and
         (g)   A warning to the owner of state law requirements.
   (G)   (1)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state,
shall, while operating or using such vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town, carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form
issued by a carrier (providing the operator in not excluded from coverage
thereon) or an equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety,
reflecting liability coverage.
      (2)   An owner’s security verification form issued to the owner of a
motor vehicle may be used as an operator’s security verification form by an
operator who is not the owner of the motor vehicle, if said operator is not
excluded from coverage on the motor vehicle liability insurance policy for the
vehicle; any such exclusions from said policy shall be included on the owner’s
security verification form.
      (3)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid
and current security verification form (or equivalent form) which has been
issued by the Department, upon request of any peace officer of the Town Police
Department, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (H)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (I)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department of
Public Safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force
at the time of the alleged offense, shall be entitled to dismissal of such
charge.
   (J)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the Department of Public Safety within ten
days, reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 104) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the town at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine
whether it is safe, properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment and repair.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 105)
§ 73.03 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter, or motor bicycle shall
ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not
carry any other person, nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle, unless
it is designed to carry more than one person.
   (B)   In such event, a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached
to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 106) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 SEAT BELT USAGE; CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
the town shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49
C.F.R. § 571.208.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PASSENGER CAR shall mean VEHICLE as
defined in 47 O.S. § 1102. PASSENGER CAR shall include the passenger
compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles. PASSENGER
CAR shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles,
motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. PASSENGER CAR shall not include a vehicle
used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 1134.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Public Safety, upon application from a person who,
for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt system supported by
written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 495, may issue to the person an exemption from the provisions of this
section. The exemption shall be in the form of a restriction appearing on the
driver’s license of the person and shall remain in effect until the expiration
date of the driver license. Nothing in this division (C) shall be construed to
prevent the person from applying for another exemption as provided for in this
section. The issuance of an attestation by a physician and the subsequent
issuance of an exemption by the Commissioner, in good faith, shall not give
rise to, nor shall the physician and the state thereby incur, any liability
whatsoever in damages or otherwise, to any person injured by reason of failure
of the person to wear a safety seat belt system.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (E)   The Department of Public Safety shall not record or assess points for
violations of this section on any license holder’s traffic record maintained by
the Department.
   (F)   Fine and court costs for violating the provisions of division (A)
above shall not exceed $20 inclusive of court costs.
   (G)   Every driver, when transporting a child under six years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of the town, shall
provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system. For purposes of this section and 47 O.S. § 11-1113, CHILD
PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger restraint system
which meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213.
   (H)   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (I)   The provisions of divisions (G) and (H) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (2)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      (4)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices; or
      (5)   (a)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than 40 pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this division (I)
(5), back seats shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a
vehicle operated by a licensed child care facility or church.
         (b)   Provided further, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a
child has met the weight requirements of this division (I)(5) if at the request
of any law enforcement officer, the licensed child care facility or church
provides the officer with a written statement verified by the parent or legal
guardian that the child weighs more than 40 pounds.
   (J)   (1)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle
if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of
divisions (G) and (H) above and to give an oral warning to said driver.
      (2)   The warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to
children resulting from the failure to install or use a child passenger
restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 116) Penalty, see §
73.99
VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS
§ 73.15 VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Vehicles, except authorized municipal or emergency vehicles, that
exceed 15 tons are prohibited from traveling upon that portion of Cherry Street
that is within the town limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, or other entity to
operate any vehicle (including without limitation trucks with attached
trailers) having a total weight (loaded or empty) in excess of 15 tons gross
weight upon Beaver Springs Road south of Cedar Avenue, provided that the Town
Board of Trustees may, upon application and adequate provision and security for
payment of any damages to the roadway caused thereby, grant a temporary permit
for the operation of such vehicles in excess of such gross weight.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 117) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES; OVERSIZED VEHICLE PERMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle or object with injuries, or is likely to injure, any street
within the town shall be driven or moved on any street within said
municipality.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed or so loaded as to cause, or be likely to cause, a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property, without having obtained an
oversized vehicle permit from the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 4, § 41) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the
width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by
state laws, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Board of Trustees may prescribe routes through the
municipality for the use of trucks and/or other vehicles, which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the town.
      (2)   When it is necessary for vehicles of the class described in
division (A) above to travel to and from a location on any of the town’s public
streets, alleys, or places for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise,
or the provision of necessary services at such location, the route traveled
shall be as short and direct as possible from and to the most available,
legally designed truck route or state or federal highway.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Board of Trustees shall see that appropriate and
adequate signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles
may follow the routes.
      (2)   When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in
case of emergency.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 4, § 42) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 MUFFLERS AND CUT-OUTS.
   No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the town unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler, cut-out, or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle, except that exhaust whistles may be used on
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 4, § 43) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 PROHIBITION OF USE OF “JAKE” BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense within the municipal limits of the town
for any person, firm, or corporation to use vehicle or trailer brakes which
create an excessive or unusual noise such as is created by the use of “Jake”
brakes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 4, § 44) Penalty, see §
73.99
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 73.30 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, welfare, and safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protections
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the town from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 31)
§ 73.31 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage, or other place of safekeeping
designated by the Town Board of Trustees, and shall not be removed to any other
place.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 32)
§ 73.32 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this code shall be stored and held safely until a written order
for its release, signed by the Chief of Police (or a designated
representative), has been issued.
   (B)   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle, by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      (2)   Payment of all fines and costs due the town because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle, or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 33)
§ 73.33 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment, together with payment (or tender of payment) of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby authorized to release vehicles
which have been impounded (and accept agreements and bonds to save the town
harmless by such releases) to persons other than the registered owner of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit
(by written instruments or other documents), to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and
the Chief of Police, proof of compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of interest; and
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all of its
employees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 34)
§ 73.34 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town, and members of the Municipal Police
Department, are hereby authorized, within the limits set forth in this
subchapter, to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer, and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
subchapter and other policies of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 35)
§ 73.35 CAUSES OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded, under
the following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 72 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (B)   Any unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway, or
within the structure of a grade separation may be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest, taken into custody, and detained by police under circumstances which
leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the
vehicle may be impounded.
   (D)   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare, and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic, shall be impounded.
   (E)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of 72 hours or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of
the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be
notified of the action by the Police Department.
   (F)   A trespassing, unattended vehicle may be impounded when the required
complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal occupant who
complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the
owner’s (or legal occupant’s) property; if the identity of the person parking
the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered
owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the
complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the
vehicle is parked or standing. Upon filing of the complaint by the property
owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a
violation has occurred, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded and placed in storage.
   (G)   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited, and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition, may be impounded.
   (H)   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder, or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be
impounded.
   (I)   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   (J)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police, and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle (or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department. If the
registered owner is identified, located, and notified of the recovery of the
stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make arrangements for the
removal of the vehicle within a period of 24 hours from the time he or she is
actually notified of its recovery; if the owner is unable or unwilling to
effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 36)
§ 73.36 ABANDONED, WRECKED, OR NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall abandon any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or junked vehicle, nor leave such
vehicle for such time, and under such conditions, as to cause it to reasonably
appear to have been abandoned, upon any public property, dedicated street
right-of-way, or public easement.
      (2)   Vehicles so abandoned or left shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   A rebuttable presumption exists that vehicles have been abandoned when
any one of the following conditions exists.
      (1)   Weeds and/or grass undergrowth indicates to a reasonable person
that the vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur.
      (2)   One or more wheels are flat or missing.
      (3)   Portions of the vehicle which are needed for its operation or
control are missing.
      (4)   Neighboring residents provide written statements as to the length
of time such vehicle has been standing in one place without removal, or
statements that parts are taken from or added to such vehicle, which would
indicate a salvage, garage, or used parts operation.
      (5)   Evidence exists that provisions of the code pertaining to zoning or
to junk or salvage yards are being violated.
      (6)   No current license tag is present or visible on the vehicle.
   (C)   Appropriate municipal officials (including, but not limited to, the
Mayor, the Chief of Police, the Municipal Building Inspector, the Fire Chief,
and the Town Clerk/Treasurer) may remove and impound, or cause to be removed
and impounded, those vehicles which appear to be in violation of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the removal and impoundment of any vehicle under the
provisions of this subchapter, or any of the appropriate methods of nuisance
abatement (see
Chapter 92 of this code), the appropriate municipal officials shall attempt to
notify, by certified mail, the registered owner of such vehicle, stating that
the vehicle appears to be in violation of this subchapter, and that the owner
has 48 hours from the receipt of such notice to remove the vehicle.
      (2)   Should the municipal officials be unable to serve notice upon the
owner, a notice containing similar provisions shall be affixed to the abandoned
vehicle instead, at least 48 hours prior to the required time of compliance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 3, § 37) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
73.04(G) shall be punished by a fine of $20 inclusive of court costs and (H)
shall be punished by a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs thereof.
Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the Department of Public Safety
Revolving Fund and used by the State Highway Safety Office to promote the use
of child passenger restraint systems as provided in 47 O.S. § 11-1113. This
fine shall be suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum of $15 in the
case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a
child passenger restraint system. Provided, the Department of Public Safety
shall not assess points to the driving record of any person convicted of a
violation of §
73.04(G) and (H).
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 116)
   (C)   Any person, company, or other entity charged with violating any
provision of §
73.15, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine of up to $200 inclusive of court costs. Each day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 9, § 117)
   (D)   Any person, firm, association, corporation, or co-partnership who
shall violate any of the provisions §
73.19 shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 plus court costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 4, § 44)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Traffic laws applicable to persons riding bicycles
   
74.02   Bicycle equipment
   
74.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
74.04   Riding on bicycles
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by the ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and to those
provisions of state law or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 7, § 81)
§ 74.02 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from all distances, up to 500 feet to
the front, and with a red reflector on the rear, of a type which shall be
visible from all distances up to 300 feet to the rear, when directly in front
of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 7, § 82) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 7, § 83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (B)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same direction.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and not the roadway.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle at speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or
building, shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching pedestrians, and upon
entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching
pedestrians, and upon entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicle approaching on such roadway.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to have signs placed on any
sidewalk or traffic way prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any
person; when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Art. 7, § 84) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: RAILROADS
Section
   
75.01   Railroads to improve certain streets and alleys
   
75.02   Climbing on trains
   
75.03   Loitering on railroad premises
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE CERTAIN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies or crosses any portion of a street with its
tracks either on or adjacent thereto, the railroad company shall improve as
much of the street as is occupied by its tracks and two feet on either side
thereof, in a manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever a railroad company crosses or occupies an alley with its
tracks, such company shall improve, drain, grade, and/or pave such alley, in
order to eliminate problems created by the presence of its tracks.
   (C)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet (measuring from inside rail to inside rail), the railroad company shall
grade, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks and surface, in a
manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 1, § 1) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any
manner attach to any train or railroad car, while such is in motion within the
town unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
   (B)   It also shall be unlawful to board any train or railroad car
(passenger, freight, or other) without a proper ticket or the permission of the
person in charge of the train or railroad car, or not in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 LOITERING ON RAILROAD PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not acting within the line of duty, not
having any proper business or not being on any proper mission requiring said
person’s presence there, to loiter anywhere near a railroad yard or upon other
railroad premises.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 3, § 21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators, and containers
Contagious Diseases
   
90.15   Introducing diseases
   
90.16   Report of contagious diseases
   
90.17   Quarantine
Sanitary Facilities
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Owner to provide proper toilet facilities
   
90.32   Proper disposal of human excrement required
   
90.33   Unauthorized facilities declared public nuisances
Tobacco Usage
   
90.45   Definitions
   
90.46   Prohibited conduct
   
90.47   Required signs
   
90.48   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS, AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave, in a
place accessible to children, any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator,
or other container which has an air-tight door with a lock or other fastening
device which cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice
box, refrigerator, or container, without first removing the door, lock, or
fastener.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 3, § 31) Penalty, see §
90.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 90.15 INTRODUCING DISEASES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person affected with, or exposed to, any
contagious or infectious diseases to be upon any street or in any public place
in the town; the purpose of this requirement is to avoid exposing other persons
to such a disease.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having charge
of any child or children to allow or permit such child or children to attend
any classes, school, or any gathering of people, or to appear upon any street
or in any public place in the town while infected with, or exposed to, any
contagious or infectious diseases, or in any manner to allow other persons to
be exposed to such a disease.
   (C)   No person suffering from, or infected with, the communicable form of a
venereal disease shall engage in any occupation involving intimate contact with
persons, food, or food products.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 1, § 1) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 REPORT OF CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   (A)   Every physician practicing in the town shall report to the county
health official, within six hours after the diagnosis of the same, the
appearance of any of the following diseases: diphtheria (including membranous
croup), scarlet fever, smallpox, yellow fever, typhoid fever, typhus fever,
Asiatic cholera, chicken pox, tuberculosis, undulant fever, acute anterior,
poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis,
whooping cough, mumps, or any other pestilential, infectious, or contagious
disease.
   (B)   (1)   Syphilis, gonococcus infection, and cancroid are hereby and
hereinafter recognized and declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable,
and dangerous to the public health.
      (2)   The term VENEREAL DISEASE, as used in this chapter, shall include
all such diseases.
   (C)   The statutes of the state governing the disease stated in divisions
(A) and (B) above shall apply to all cases of this nature, after said report is
made.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, or go upon, any ground
or premises under quarantine without first having obtained permission to do so
from the local or county health official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person whom the local or county health
official shall have ordered to be detained in quarantine, to neglect or refuse
to be so detained, or to willfully violate any quarantine regulation thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, remove, deface,
mutilate, or destroy any order, notice, or flag that may be posted or displayed
by the local or county health official.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate, or refuse to
comply with, any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of
any officer or official charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
90.99
SANITARY FACILITIES
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 2, § 21)
§ 90.31 OWNER TO PROVIDE PROPER TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed, or congregate shall install, equip, and maintain adequate
sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement; this requirement shall
include a sanitary water closet or closets, or a water closet or closets
connected to an approved septic tank.
   (B)   (1)   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 300 feet of any municipal sanitary sewer
system line and accessible thereto.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner of property so located to
connect, or cause to be connected, his or her toilet(s) with the municipal
sanitary sewer system, and to make every proper connection so that each toilet
is properly connected with said municipal sewer system.
   (C)   When not so located, the closet or toilet shall be of the sanitary
water closet type, so connected to a sanitary sewer (notwithstanding the
distance from it), or the water closet type, connected to a septic tank
approved by the county health officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 2, § 22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT REQUIRED.
   All human excrement shall be disposed of by deposition in closets of the
type described in §
90.31. It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit the disposal of
human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of
human excrement in any other manner.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 2, § 23) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different
from that required by this code, and all privies and closets so constructed,
situated, or maintained as to endanger the public health, are hereby declared
to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as such.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 2, § 24) Penalty, see §
90.99
TOBACCO USAGE
§ 90.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public,
at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. INDOOR AREA
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees,
as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways, or the like.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including, but not limited to, recreational areas and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the town, including, but not limited to,
vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container, with or without nicotine, or other form
that is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
(Ord. 19-09-01, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 90.46 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by state law.
   (B)   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits any person or entity from
prohibiting the use of tobacco products or vapor products on his, her, or their
property, even if the use of tobacco products or vapor products is not
otherwise prohibited in that area.
   (D)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   (E)   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles,
such as ashtrays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person
or entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of
ash receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (F)   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 19-09-01, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   (A)   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by this
subchapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point
of entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the
area.
   (B)   For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least four inches by two inches in
size and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that
a tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather-resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch,
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the Town Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her
designee, shall be responsible for the posting of signs on municipal property,
both indoor and outdoor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products
in violation of any other provision.
(Ord. 19-09-01, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The use of a vapor product in violation of this subchapter is a
nuisance.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the Town
Police Department. In addition, any peace officer or code enforcement official
may enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-09-01, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.01,
90.15 through
90.17, or
90.30 through
90.33, or of any ordinance, code, or standard adopted by reference to this
chapter, or maintains or permits to continue any public nuisance as defined by
§§
90.01,
90.15 through
90.17, or
90.30, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Art. 4, § 41)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who knowingly violates §§
90.45 through
90.48 shall be punished by a citation and fine of not less than $50 and not
more than $100 in accordance with §§
90.45 through
90.48.
      (2)   Each instance of a tobacco product or vapor product use in
violation of §§
90.45 through
90.48 shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 19-09-01, passed 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Disturbances by animals; public nuisance abatement
   
91.03   Responsibilities of owners
   
91.04   Cruelty to animals
   
91.05   Turning confined animals at large
   
91.06   Pasturing in public areas
   
91.07   Rabies control; vaccination requirements
   
91.08   Confining female dogs and cats
   
91.09   Animals running at large
   
91.10   Keeping potentially dangerous, vicious, or non-domestic animals
   
91.11   Impoundment and disposition; general
   
91.12   Impoundment and disposition; vicious animal
   
91.13   Injured animals
   
91.14   Kennels prohibited
   
91.15   Licenses required
   
91.16   Inspection to enforce
   
91.17   Zoning ordinance to prevail
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. The voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no
intention to retain possession, including, but not limited to, vacating a
premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, failing to feed and/or
water an animal, allowing an animal to stray or wander onto public or private
property with the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said
animal.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL POUND. Any premises formally designated by the
Town Board of Trustees for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether or not said
premises are within or without the municipality’s corporate boundaries, and
regardless of whether or not said premises are under actual municipal ownership
or provided for under a contractual arrangement between the town and private
sector owner(s).
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of his, her, or their immediate family over 12 years of age, or
an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises
or not.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has inflicted injury on a human being without
provocation on public or private property, or any dog that has previously been
found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having been given notice in
writing of such by an officer, and the dog thereafter bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans, or kills or inflicts injury upon a domestic
animal.
   HARBORING. Allowing any animal to habitually remain, or be fed, on premises
under an owner’s control.
   KENNEL. Any structure or place where more than three dogs, over six months
of age, are kept, bred, or trained, at any single time, or any facility
designed or built to accommodate the temporary (less than 60 days) boarding of
more than three dogs over six months of age.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds, or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
   NEUTER. To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   NEW OWNER. A person legally competent to enter into a contract acquiring a
dog or cat from the releasing agency.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is not included within the definition
of ANIMAL listed above. NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited
to, coyotes, wolves, tigers, lions, bears, elk, moose, and deer.
   NUISANCE ANIMALS. Any animal that chases, frightens, or otherwise
intimidates passersby of passing vehicles; or attacks other animals; or
trespasses; or is repeatedly at large; or inflicts damage on the property of
others, either public or private; or barks, whines, scratches, howls, or makes
excessive noises in a continuous or untimely fashion.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation, owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping an animal.
   PET. Any animal kept primarily for pleasure, rather than for sale or other
commercial purposes.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, unprovoked, inflicts a bite or
other injury on a human, or displays behavior that requires a defensive action
by any person to prevent bodily injury either on public or private property; or
any dog that, when unprovoked, attacks, kills, or injures animal on public or
private property.
   RELEASING AGENCY. Any pound (municipal or otherwise), shelter, or humane
society organization, whether public or private.
   RESTRAINT. An animal confined upon the premises of its owner, if on a leash
and accompanied by a responsible person, or in the case of a hunting dog, if
accompanied by its owner engaged in the act of hunting.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury resulting in broken bones or lacerations
requiring surgery or sutures.
   SPAY. To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat, in order to render said
animal unable to reproduce.
   STERILIZATION. To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any
person, without undue provocation, or which attacks or assaults any person, or
which has mauled or killed a dog, cat, or other domestic animal; provided that
such animal shall not be declared to be vicious or dangerous if the threat,
injury, or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
animal, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or has, in the
past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. See 4 O.S. § 46(B).
   VISITING OF TEMPORARY ANIMAL. Any non-resident animal remaining within the
town for less than 60 days while in the custody and under the control of a
resident of the town.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally
wild state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated. The term shall include
such animals which may be owned by a circus or wild animal show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 91.02 DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or other
animal which molests a passerby or passing vehicles, attacks other animals,
trespasses on private property, damages private or public property, or barks,
whines, or howls in an excessive, or habitual, or continuous manner.
   (B)   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   (C)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep pigs or hogs
within the town limits.
   (D)   Abatement of such public nuisance shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 92 of this code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 91.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal shall
have the following additional responsibilities.
   (A)   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
   (C)   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly, willfully, or
maliciously to:
      (1)   Deposit any animal with intention of abandoning the same;
      (2)   Pour on or apply to any animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain;
      (3)   Improperly use any collar, leash, harness, or the like, resulting
in pain or damage to an animal;
      (4)   Treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
      (5)   Neglect an animal belonging to, or in the custody of, an owner, in
a cruel or inhumane manner;
      (6)   Kill, or attempt to kill, any animal in an inhumane manner; and/or
      (7)   Poison, or expose to poison, any dog or other animal, except a
noxious, non-domesticated, or vicious animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight
between animals; or, to encourage one animal to attack, pursue, or annoy
another animal, except a noxious non-domesticated animal; or to keep a house,
pit, or other place used for fights between animals.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to negligently:
      (1)   Fail to provide his or her animals with sufficient wholesome food
and water, proper shelter from inclement weather, veterinary care when needed
to prevent suffering, and with humane care and treatment;
      (2)   Beat, cruelly ill-treat, over lead, overwork, or otherwise abuse an
animal, or cause or permit any dogfight, cock fight, bullfight, or other combat
between animals or between animals and humans; and/or
      (3)   Abandon such animal.
   (D)   For any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a
domestic animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be
possible and shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s
owner. In the event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator
shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency or
to the local humane society.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 TURNING CONFINED ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which an animal
is confined (as required by ordinance) so as to turn such animal at large, or
to in any other manner turn such animal at large.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal
on any public property (federal, state, municipal, or other), or on any
railroad right-of-way, without the consent of the person owning or controlling
such property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 6) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any warm-blooded animal, capable of transmitting the virus rabies,
maintained or harbored at any time within the corporate limits of the town,
shall be vaccinated against rabies with an approved vaccine administered by a
veterinarian who shall maintain a record of vaccination for a period of at
least three years, and who shall issue the owner of such animal a vaccination
certificate (which shall be retained by the owner until it expires and is
renewed). The failure to procure such certificate when so requested shall be
prima facie evidence that such animal has not been vaccinated.
   (B)   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the police and to the County Health
Department. The police shall securely quarantine such animal until reasonable
determination has been made that the animal is not infected with rabies. At the
discretion of the police, such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner,
at a veterinary hospital of the owner’s choice (at the owner’s expense), or at
the municipal pound or animal shelter. Said animal may be reclaimed by the
owner, if adjudged free of rabies; such owner shall then pay any related
charges for confinement.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
is suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian, and dies while under
such observation, the police, veterinarian, or other designated person shall
immediately send the necessary part of such animal to the State Department of
Health for pathological examination and shall notify the proper health officer
of any reports of human contact.
   (D)   (1)   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies, and the
County Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the County
Health Department may recommend to the Town Board of Trustees a community-wide
quarantine; upon invoking of such quarantine by the Town Board of Trustees, no
animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets,
except for short periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent
adult).
      (2)   During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the
town without written permission of the Chief of Police.
   (E)   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed; or, at the owner’s
expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a licensed
veterinarian; or, held under six months quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall remove from the town any animal suspected of
having been exposed to rabies, or any animal that has bitten a human, except as
herein provided.
      (2)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to the police upon demand; the police shall direct disposition of
said animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the police.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person within the corporate limits of
the town owning or harboring any dog or cat which is six months old or older,
to procure a rabies vaccination certificate from a licensed veterinarian, or
agent authorized by the Town Board of Trustees, showing that the vaccination
has been made, date of vaccination, by whom, and the date when such vaccination
shall expire.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to not to comply with all the municipal
vaccination requirements after 15 days of residency within the town.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or place any animal rabies
tag or town license tag upon another animal.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 7) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined, in any building or secure
enclosure, in such manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 8) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any horse, cow, mule, hog,
sheep, goat, or other animal of similar kind to permit the same to run at large
within the town or to trespass upon the lands of another.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, designated representatives, or any police officer
of the town shall be required to kill any dog running loose within the
corporate limits of the town, which is determined by the Chief of Police or any
police officer to be vicious or rabid and a threat to the public health and
safety, and which dog is found running at large without being restrained in a
pen or on a leash (as provided by this chapter), without keeping said dog in
the municipal pound for any period of time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 9) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 KEEPING POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, VICIOUS, OR NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   The following requirements are imposed on any person owning or keeping
(having care, custody, and control) of a potentially dangerous dog, dangerous
dog, vicious animal, or non-domestic animal.
   (A)   Identify the animal by having the animal wear, at all times, a collar
and/or tag identifying address and owner.
   (B)   Post on the premises where the animal is kept. The sign shall be
visible and capable of being read from the public street or sidewalk adjacent
to the premises and contain a symbol that informs children of the presence of a
dangerous animal.
   (C)   Spay or neuter the animal unless the owner is a registered breeder.
   (D)   Identify the animal by affixing a tag with a code number issued by the
Town Police Department for a fee.
   (E)   Notify the Town Police Department within 24 hours if the animal has
died, been sold, or donated, and provide the Police Department with the name,
address, and phone number of the new owner, if any.
   (F)   Pay a fee annually (between January 2 and January 20 of each calendar
year) or whenever an animal is newly obtained, and is provided a proper
enclosure.
      (1)   PROPER ENCLOSURE means, while on the owner’s property, the animal
shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure with at least 150 square feet of space for each animal kept therein
which is over six months of age, and which is suitable to prevent the entry of
children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or
structure shall have secure sides and secure top and shall also provide
protection from the elements for the animal.
      (2)   While outside the enclosure, the animal must be:
         (a)   On a chain link leash not more than six feet in length and held
in the hand;
         (b)   Muzzled; and
         (c)   Controlled by a person over 16 years of age and possessing
suitable discretion.
      (3)   While off the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer, the
animal must:
         (a)   Be on a chain link leash or tether not more than six feet in
length and under the control of the owner or person over 16 years of age and
possessing suitable discretion; and
         (b)   Muzzled or securely confined in a locked cage with a top and
bottom.
   (G)   At the time of registration, provide proof of liability insurance with
an insurance company authorized to write liability insurance in the state,
providing coverage in each occurrence subject to a limit exclusive of interest
and costs of not less than $1,000,000 because of damage or bodily injury to or
death of a person caused by the dog and provide a certificate of such coverage
to the Town Police Department at the time the animal is registered.
   (H)   Ensure that the animal or animals do not at any time go unconfined on
the property of another or be at large within the town.
   (I)   Annually license the animal with the Police Department. Failure of the
animal to wear this license is prima facie evidence of lack of licensing.
   (J)   Vaccinate the animal against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and
revaccinate at regular interval for the life of the animal. Said animal must
wear rabies vaccination tags, issued by a licensed veterinarian, at all times.
Failure to wear said tag is prima facie evidence of the lack of vaccination
against rabies.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION; GENERAL.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals, including cats, shall be taken
by the police animal control officer or humane officer, and impounded in an
animal shelter and confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not less than seven working
days.
   (C)   If by a license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the animal control officer shall immediately upon
impoundment notify the owner by telephone or mail.
   (D)   An owner surrendering an animal shall pay a surrender fee of $20 for
small animals, $25 for medium animals, and $30 for large animals.
   (E)   An owner of an animal that has been impounded during business hours
shall pay a fee of $15 for the first offense, $30 for the second offense, and
$45 for the third offense. An owner of an animal that is impounded after
business hours shall be $35 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense,
and $65 for the third offense. The owner shall also be responsible for every
day the animal was impounded at $5 a day.
   (F)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within seven working days shall
become the property of the local government authority, or humane society, and
shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized. If said
animal is placed for adoption, no animal shall be adopted without being
vaccinated for rabies and spayed or neutered, as the case may be. The only
exception to being spayed or neutered shall be if the animal is being used for
breeding purposes, at which time the owner must sign an affidavit to such
effect.
   (G)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the animal control officer, humane officer, or police officer may issue to the
known owner of such animal a notice of ordinance violation. Such notice shall
impose upon the owner a penalty not to exceed $140 including costs, which may,
at the discretion of the animal owner, be paid to the town with 72 hours in
full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the event that such penalty is
not paid within the time period described, a criminal warrant shall be
initiated before a magistrate and upon conviction of a violation of the
chapter; the owner shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION; VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief, or his or her designated
representative, upon receipt of a verified complaint, to cause the animal
involved to be impounded pending a vicious animal determination as required by
this section. The owner shall immediately surrender possession of the animal
when presented with a copy of the complaint. Each day that the owner fails or
refuses to allow the Police Chief, or his or her designated representative, to
impound an animal shall be a separate offense. Any and all expenses associated
with the impoundment, including costs of shelter, food, handling, and
veterinary care, shall be borne by the owner of such animal during the period
of impoundment.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of a verified complaint, the Police Chief, or his
or her designated representative, shall promptly hold a hearing to determine if
an animal shall be declared vicious or dangerous.
      (2)   The verified complaint may be filed by a citizen, a police officer,
or an animal control officer, and shall clearly state the facts and
circumstances surrounding determinations at the hearing:
         (a)   The animal is in fact not vicious. In that event, the Police
Chief shall cause it to be surrendered to the owner;
         (b)   The animal is in fact vicious and should be destroyed; or
         (c)   The animal is vicious, but that for good cause shown, the animal
should not be destroyed. In that event, the Police Chief shall order the animal
permanently removed from the town limits.
   (C)   The owner may appeal the determination of the Police Chief to the
Municipal Court by requesting a hearing within five days of the determination.
The Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing de novo within ten days of the
impoundment to determine if the animal is vicious as defined by this chapter
and shall be empowered to make a determination based upon division (B) above.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 14)
§ 91.13 INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any seriously injured animal (wearing a collar, license, or
identification tag, or that appears to be a well-cared-for pet), shall be taken
to a veterinarian by Animal Control to be stabilized and given needed pain
alleviation for a 12-hour period while the owner is sought.
      (2)   If the owner has not been located and has not assumed financial
responsibility for the animal by the end of the 12-hour period, the
veterinarian shall euthanize the animal with sodium pentobarbital injection,
unless it can be held at the shelter without excessive pain for the remainder
of its holding period.
      (3)   If the animal has massive or unrecoverable injuries (as determined
by the veterinarian or animal control officer), it may be immediately
euthanized.
   (B)   Animals without identification and in poor, uncared-for condition may
be euthanized after the normal holding period; or immediately, if seriously
injured or suffering as determined by the animal control officer or
veterinarian.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 15)
§ 91.14 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to own a kennel within the town.
   (B)   If such a person is found to have a kennel on his, her, or their
property, the person shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and is
subject to the penalties included in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 16) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   The town requires that all dogs and cats over six months of age be
vaccinated and be covered by an annual owner’s license. This permit can be
obtained at the Town Hall for a license fee of $10 per animal.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 20) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 INSPECTION TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The local or county health official, the Chief of Police, or any
member of the Town Board of Trustees, upon complaint of any person or on a
self-initiated basis, shall inspect any structure or place wherein an animal is
kept.
   (B)   The local or county health official, or the Chief of Police, may issue
any such reasonable order as may be deemed necessary, to the owner of any
animal, to cause such animal to be kept as provided for in this chapter or in a
manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   The local or county health official, or the Chief of Police, may make
a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall not
abridge the right of others to make such complaints.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 10)
§ 91.17 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   (A)   In case of a conflict between this chapter and the present or any
future zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail
and supersede the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No animal shall be kept in violation of any applicable zoning
ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person that owns or is keeper of any chickens, ducks, turkeys,
geese, or other domestic fowl or rabbits, and shall permit the same to run at
large in the town or trespass on the premises of another, in violation of §
91.09, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 9)
   (C)   Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, maintaining, or
having the care, custody, or control of a potentially dangerous dog, dangerous
dog, vicious animal, or non-domestic animal who is convicted of or who pleads
guilty to any violation of §
91.10 shall be subject to a minimum non-suspendable fine in the amount of $380
per count plus state-imposed fees as imposed by the Municipal Judge. In
addition, the animal or animals may be banned from the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 3, Art. 1, § 12)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Nuisance unlawful
   
92.03   Town Board may determine nuisances
   
92.04   Public nuisances; possible remedies
   
92.05   Private nuisances; possible remedies
   
92.06   Person liable
   
92.07   Procedure cumulative
   
92.08   Summary abatement
   
92.09   Abatement of public health nuisances
   
92.10   Removal of unsafe and dilapidated structures
   
92.11   Cleaning and mowing of property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE BODY. A three-member panel consisting of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, Water Superintendent, and Chief of Police, which shall have the
authority to preside over a grass, weed, and trash abatement.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Town Clerk/Treasurer or the nuisance abatement
official appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
   BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding, or locking of any or all
exterior openings, so as to prevent entry into a structure.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS. A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks
the necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin, to
such an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety, and
welfare of the general public.
   NUISANCE. Consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty,
or any thing or condition which:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends public decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for use, any lake, drainage way, stream, stream basin, public
park, street, or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders person insecure in life or in the use of
property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 4)
   OWNER. The owner(s) of record, as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste, or other matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Shall include, but not be limited to, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac, and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds six inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit, safety, and/or welfare of the public or community,
create a traffic or fire hazard, or otherwise interfere with the mowing of said
weeds;
         (b)   Conceals or invites deposition or accumulation of refuse or
trash, regardless of the height of the vegetation;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a traffic or fire hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
   (2)   WEEDS shall not include tended crops or land zoned for agricultural
use, which crops are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for other
than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 1)
(Ord. 21-6-1, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 92.02 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner, lessee, or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under said
person’s control, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 TOWN BOARD MAY DETERMINE NUISANCES.
   The Town Board of Trustees has the power to determine what is and what shall
constitute a nuisance within the corporate limits of the town and, for the
protection of the public health, parks, and water supply, outside of said
town’s corporate limits.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 3)
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of people, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; and
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with state law or ordinance.
   (C)   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 5)
§ 92.05 PRIVATE NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Every nuisance not included in §
92.04 is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; and
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 6)
§ 92.06 PERSON LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 7)
§ 92.07 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of state law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the
other; the Town Board of Trustees may elect to follow any such procedure which
is applicable in abating any particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 1, § 8)
§ 92.08 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the Town Board of Trustees has the
power summarily to abate any such nuisance, after notice to the owner and
opportunity to be heard, if this can be done.
   (B)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or
more persons or the public generally, and it is recognized that, in such
circumstances, the Mayor (or a representative) may be justified or required to
take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to
reduce or suspend the danger, until more deliberate action can be taken toward
such abatement.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney, the Health
Official, any Trustee, any resident of the town, or any other officer
subordinate to the Town Board of Trustees, may submit to said Town Board a
statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by state law or the
ordinances of the town, and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   (D)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact, and before proceeding to have the nuisance
abated, said Town Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to any other person
alleged or deemed responsible for, or to be causing, the nuisance, and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service (by a police officer), if his, her, or
their names and addresses are known; if the names and addresses are not known,
and the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person, persons, or
public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary
delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town or county.
   (E)   If the Town Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact
exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or
causing the nuisance, to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare of the person, person, or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate it within the specific time, the Town Board of Trustees shall direct the
Mayor to abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is
practical.
   (F)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner and/or other person responsible for, or causing,
the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if his, her, or their
name(s) and address(es) are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a
debt to the town, collectible as other debts of the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 2, § 11)
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   The local or county health official shall have the authority to order,
in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove
from such premises, within a reasonable length of time and at the owner’s
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conductive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health; failure
to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be served on the owner
or occupant (or agent) of the premises by the local or county health official,
or a police officer. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant, or agent, if unknown, is without the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town or county.
   (B)   (1)   If the order is not complied with, the health official may cause
the order to be executed, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer; the cost of abating such nuisance shall be added to the
municipal utility bill of the owner or occupant (if a user of any municipal
utility service) and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to the delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
      (2)   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal utility
service, such costs, after certification to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 2, § 12) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE AND DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   When, in the opinion of the Municipal Building Inspector, the local or
county health official or any municipal official, any building, wall, or other
structure upon, adjoining, or near any street, avenue, alley, or public ground
within the town becomes dangerous, insecure, or liable to collapse from
inherent structural weakness or decay, or which, from fire damage or other
causes, becomes a menace to life or property, the same may be declared to be a
nuisance.
      (1)   Any such building shall be reported by the Municipal Building
Inspector or any municipal official to the Town Board of Trustees, together
with the lot and block number, the owner (or agent), and a description of the
condition.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such report, the Town Board of Trustees shall
review the significance to the community by requesting a recommendation from
the Preservation Commission; following review of said recommendation, the Town
Board shall consider whether or not to declare such building or structure to be
a nuisance and serve 15 days’ legal written notice on the owner (or agent) to
wreck or remove the same, or provide an alternative proposal for restoration,
sale, and restoration, or other appropriate method of encouraging productive
re-use of the structure. Said notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected, and shall also be sent by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, to the owner, as shown on the County Treasurer’s records. Written
notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder, as shown by the County
Clerk’s records. If neither the property owner nor the mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by legal notice; such notice may be published
once, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town
pursuant to the provisions of the section, or, as an alternative, notice may be
given by First Class mail to the property owner and mortgage holder.
      (3)   The Town Board of Trustees may hear all objections and evidence in
relation thereto and, unless the owner can show good and sufficient reason why
the building should not be condemned, the original order of said Town Board
shall be executed, or any appropriate alternative solution may be implemented.
      (4)   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted
by the removal of such conditions, the Town Board of Trustees may cause the
dilapidated building to be torn down and removed, or implement an alternative
solution, and shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of
the work.
      (5)   (a)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of
lien with the County Clerk describing the property, the findings of the
municipality at the hearing, and stating that the municipality claims a lien of
said property for the destruction and removal costs.
         (b)   The agents of the municipality are granted the right of entry on
the property for the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental
function of the municipality, if the work is not performed by the property
owner within dates fixed by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (6)   (a)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of
the repair, restoration, dismantling, or removal of dilapidated buildings and
any other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction with the removal of the
nuisance conditions, including an administrative fee in the amount of $400 and
the cost of notice and mailing.
         (b)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a statement of such
actual cost attributable to the work on the buildings and a demand for payment
of such costs, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property
owner. In addition, a copy of said statement shall be mailed to any mortgage
holder.
      (7)   If the municipality repairs, restores, dismantles, or removes any
dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the actual
repairs, restoration, dismantling, or removal of the dilapidated buildings. If
work on the dilapidated building is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the most responsible and most responsive bidder.
      (8)   When payment is made to the municipality for costs incurred, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable
to the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made
within six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. Said costs shall be levied on
the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. The cost and the interest thereon shall be lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk.
Said lien shall be co-equal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other
taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost
is fully paid. At any time prior to collection, the municipality may pursue any
civil remedy for collection of the amount owed and interest thereon. Upon
receiving payment, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward to the County
Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
      (9)   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall prevent the
municipality from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise
exercising its police power to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the
general public.
      (10)   After a building has been declared dilapidated, and before the
commencement of the removal of the nuisance conditions on the dilapidated
building, the Town Board of Trustees may authorize that such a building be
boarded and secured.
   (B)   Any municipal official shall have the right to stop the construction
of any building or structure, or the alteration, repair, or wrecking of the
same, if the same is being done in a careless or reckless manner, or in
violation of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 2, § 13) (Ord. 21-4-4, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 92.11 CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot, tract, or parcel of
land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand, or accumulate upon such premises, and it
shall be the duty of such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of
trash or growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any
premises within the corporate limits of said town, shall report the condition
to the administrative officer (who shall be appointed by the Town Board) if, as
a result of the accumulation of growth, the premises appear to be:
      (1)   Detrimental to the health, safety, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community;
      (2)   A hazard to traffic; or
      (3)   A fire hazard to property.
   (C)   Upon receiving the report provided for in division (B) above, or upon
receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, and upon
determination that a nuisance or violation of the code of ordinances exists,
the administrative officer shall give written notice of the finding and direct
the owner or occupant to abate the condition within ten days.
   (D)   The written notice provided for in division (C) above shall be sent by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the owner of the property at
the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the
Treasurer of the county in which the property is located. If the return receipt
shows that the property owner cannot be located, or that the owner cannot be
served by certified mail, notice may be given by publication as provided in 11
O.S. § 1-102, one time, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action
by the town. If the administrative body anticipates further abatement of any
nuisance in accordance with provisions of this section, the notice shall state
that “Any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within six months after the initial removal of trash or the
cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to such notice,
may be summarily abated by the administrative body. Further, the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed against the owner, and a lien may be imposed on
such property to secure such payment. All such actions may be taken without
further notice to the property owner.”
   (E)   The owner of the property may give his, her, or their written consent
to the town authorizing the removal of the nuisance; by providing written
consent, the owner waives his, her, or their right to a hearing.
   (F)   Upon a finding that a condition exists as set out in division (B)
above, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal of such
condition, and after at least ten days from the date of receipt of the notice
by the owner or occupant or the date of publication, the administrative officer
shall order the property to be cleaned of trash, or order trash or weeds to be
cut, removed, or destroyed, unless the owner:
      (1)   Has cut, removed, or destroyed the trash or weeds in accordance
with the notice; or
      (2)   Has filed a written request for a hearing on the matter with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer within a ten-day period to appeal the administrative
officer’s decision to the administrative body. If the owner or occupant has
given written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or weeds, any
right to a hearing shall be considered waived, and the owner shall pay for the
cost of the work. The administrative body may affirm, reverse, or modify the
order of the administrative officer. The administrative body’s review shall be
limited to a review of the finding of facts and order of the administrative
officer to determine if the provisions of this section have been complied with.
   (G)   At any hearing onto the matter, the administrative officer may receive
information thereto, including anything which may be presented by the owner of
the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. The administrative officer
shall prepare a written finding of the facts and order which will be placed in
the property files.
   (H)   The work ordered to be performed under this section may be done by the
town or it may be let by contract to the most responsible and most responsive
bidder for a period not to exceed one year. Immediately following the cleaning
or mowing, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the County
Clerk, in accordance with state law.
   (I)   Upon completion of the work ordered to be performed under this
section, the town shall prepare a statement, itemizing costs and expenses
assessed and incurred for each tract of property involved, as follows: an
administration fee of $200, labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and
supplies, cost of notice, other costs, and indirect costs, along with a demand
for payment of the total cost, and forward it by certified mail, with return
receipt requested, to:
      (1)   The owner of the properly at the address shown by the current tax
rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property lies;
or
      (2)   To the address given by the person giving written consent or
requesting the appeal, as provided for in divisions (E) and (F) above.
   (J)   If the costs of the work performed under this section are not paid
within 30 days from the date of mailing the statement prescribed by division
(I) above, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the
amount of the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property
upon which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be levied
upon the property and be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner
prescribed by the law of this state. The lien is co-equal with the lien of ad
valorem taxes and all other titles and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid. At any time prior to collection, as
provided in this section, the town may pursue any civil remedy for collection
of the amount owed and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment, directing discharge of the lien.
   (K)   If the administrative body causes property within the municipal limits
to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with
the procedures provided for in this section, any subsequent accumulations of
trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within a 12-
month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated
without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each summary
abatement, the municipality shall notify the property owner of the abatement
and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing the notice. The
notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this section. Unless otherwise
determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and
collected as provided for in this section; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply if the records of the County Clerk show that the property was
transferred after notice was given pursuant to this section.
   (L)   The Board of Trustees has designated by ordinance that an
administrative officer or administrative body has the authority to carry out
the duties of the governing body related to the abatement of nuisances as set
forth in 11 O.S. § 22-111. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to
the Board of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the Town Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the administrative
order is rendered.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 2, § 14) (Ord. 21-4-4, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 21-6-1,
passed 6-21-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited, declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense, or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any
such provision, who fails to do any act when such provision declares such
failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, who violates any
legal order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any
nuisance as defined in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the limits
established in §
32.99. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Art. 3, § 21)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Certain acts prohibited
   
93.02   Certain acts exempted
§ 93.01 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or the authorized
agents or representatives of said person, firm, or corporation to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign, or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental, or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, handicap, familial status, religion, or national
origin;
   (B)   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental, or lease of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental, or lease, when in fact it is so available,
because of the person’s race, color, handicap, familial status, religion, age,
or natural origin;
   (C)   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent, or lease, or not to
sell, rent, or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of value
due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of another race, color, handicap, religion, age, or national origin,
either by direct solicitation or inducement, or to distribute, or cause to be
distributed, material or statements designed to induce a residential property
owner to sell or lease such property, due to such change in a neighborhood; or
   (D)   File a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with knowledge
that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such a
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 CERTAIN ACTS EXEMPTED.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, handicap, familial status,
religion, age, or national origin;
   (B)   The sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first offered
for sale, the residence of its owner;
   (C)   The rental of rooms in an owner-occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house; and/or
   (D)   The rental or leasing of a housing unit owned by any religious or
fraternal organization or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § 22)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Fire extinguishers in businesses
   
94.02   Prohibition of open burning
   
94.03   Unlawful burning
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or corporation owning or operating a place of
business within the town is hereby required to own, keep, and maintain therein
such fire-fighting equipment (i.e., fire extinguishers) as the Fire Department
requires. The equipment shall be inspected regularly by the Fire Department.
   (B)   (1)   Maintenance or recharging of such equipment may be done by the
Fire Department.
      (2)   Provided that a fee sufficient to cover the cost of said service
shall be paid by the owner to the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PROHIBITION OF OPEN BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful to and no person shall cause or permit an open burning
in any public or private place outside any building, provided that open burning
may be conducted if no public nuisance is or will be created, as follows:
   (A)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of fire-fighting
personnel, when authorized by the Fire Chief;
   (B)   Fires set for the elimination of fire hazards or hazardous materials
for which there is no other practical or lawful method of disposal, and the
burning is authorized by the Mayor and the Fire Chief;
   (C)   Camp fires and other fires used solely for recreational or ceremonial
purposes or for outdoor noncommercial preparation of food;
   (D)   Fires purposely set for the management of forest or game in accordance
with practices recommended by the State Department of Agriculture or the United
Stated Forest Service and which are authorized by the Fire Chief;
   (E)   Burning of refuse and other combustible materials generated in the
operation of a domestic household when no regular garbage services are
available;
   (F)   The burning of combustible material in an open pit incinerator which
is designed and operated for the control of smoke and particulate matter;
   (G)   The burning of hydrocarbons by atmospheric flares when no other means
of disposal is practical; and
   (H)   The burning of trees, brush, grass, and other vegetable matter for the
purpose of clearing land and agricultural crop burning when:
      (1)   The burning is not within 150 feet of an occupied residence or
structure other than those located on property where the burning is to be
conducted;
      (2)   Care is used to minimize the amount of dirt on the material being
burned;
      (3)   Oils, rubber, and other similar material which produce unreasonable
amounts of air contaminants and smoke are not burned; and
      (4)   No traffic hazard is created.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL BURNING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to set fire to any forest, grass, woods,
wild lands or marshes, or to build a campfire or bonfire, or to burn trash or
any other material that may cause a forest, grass, structure, or woods fire in
the town, when:
      (1)   There has been a burn ban enacted by the Board of County
Commissioners; or
      (2)   A proclamation has been issued by the Governor of the state or the
Mayor of the town of an extraordinary danger from fire in the county, unless
the setting of any backfire is necessary to afford protection from the fire, or
to save life or property.
   (B)   The burden of proving need for setting fires is on the person claiming
the same as a defense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 1, § 5) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including the provisions of any code adopted by the town, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed
the limits established in §
32.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 2, § 21)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL TAXES AND LICENSES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   RECREATION, AMUSEMENTS, AND LEISURE
      
113.   VEHICLE SERVICES
      
114.   CHILD CARE CENTERS
      
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
116.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
117.   MISCELLANEOUS SALES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL TAXES AND LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Occupation tax levied
   
110.02   Unlicensed occupations prohibited
   
110.03   License fee
   
110.04   License required for separate locations
   
110.05   License must be displayed
   
110.06   Revocation of license
   
110.07   Assignment or transfer prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this business title, there is
hereby levied an occupation license tax upon every person, firm, association,
or corporation engaging in, exercising, or pursuing a permanent commercial
business, profession, trade, or occupation within the town.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, a PERMANENT OCCUPATION shall be a
commercial business, profession, trade, or occupation within the town which is
not an ITINERANT OCCUPATION as defined by §
111.01.
   (B)   All applicants for a permanent occupation license must:
      (1)   Provide the full legal name of the owner, or the business or
occupation;
      (2)   Provide the address, both legal and local;
      (3)   State the nature of the business or occupation;
      (4)   State the location of the business or occupation;
      (5)   State the current or anticipated number of employees;
      (6)   Must receive approval of the Planning and Zoning Board (request to
be made through the Town Enforcement Officer);
      (7)   Must receive approval of the Town Board of Trustees (request to be
made through the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s Office);
      (8)   Must possess and exhibit a current state sales tax I.D. number or
sales tax exemption;
      (9)   For any person or vendor engaged in the handling, processing, or
sale of food, must have a current certificate of health issued by the State
Health Department;
      (10)   Any person engaged in the sale, manufacture, or distribution of
alcoholic beverages must have a current license issued by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board; and
      (11)   All industrial or manufacturing operations, retail or commercial
business, profession or trade, having full-time employees, part-time employees,
or contract labor, intending to occupy any warehouse, building, or structure
within the corporate limits of the town shall verify the existence of sanitary
bathroom facilities.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 UNLICENSED OCCUPATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation to engage
in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession, trade, or occupation for
which a license tax is levied by §
110.01 or by other provisions of this code without first paying the license
tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor. Upon making proper
application to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, the payment of the license tax, and
fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law and/or
ordinance, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee is $100. Annual licenses shall expire on the June 30
of each year. The fee shall not be prorated. A $5 per day penalty shall apply
if the fee is paid after August 15 of each year up to a maximum of $150 in
separate penalties, with the exception of new permanent occupations making an
initial application for a permanent license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 13)
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SEPARATE LOCATIONS.
   An occupation tax license is required for each location within the town
where a person, firm, association, or corporation is engaged in a permanent
occupation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 14) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE MUST BE DISPLAYED.
   The occupation tax license shall be displayed conspicuously at all times at
each location where a person, firm, association, or corporation is engaged in a
permanent occupation. If a person, firm, association, or corporation engaged in
a permanent occupation does not have a permanent location, then the occupation
tax license shall be displayed to any person who requests to see it. Provided,
that in lieu of the above manner of displaying such licenses, when licenses are
for coin-operated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar
devices and equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device
or equipment in such position and manner that it will clearly be visible. It is
unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required by this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 15) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued by the town may be revoked by the Board of Town
Trustees after notice and an opportunity for a hearing is given to the person,
firm, association, or corporation engaged in the permanent occupation.
   (B)   The reasons for which a license may be revoked are as follows.
      (1)   The business of the licensee has created or is creating a public
nuisance as that term is defined by 50 O.S. §§ 1 and 2.
      (2)   The licensee has engaged in serious and repeated violations of the
state law or municipal ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 16)
§ 110.07 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of an occupation tax license is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 17) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, or corporation who violates or fails to
comply with the provisions of this chapter or any legal order or regulation
made pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $250. Each day upon which
a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. Revocation of a license
shall not be grounds for the return of any portion of the license fee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 18)
   (B)   Any person, firm, association, or corporation which fails to renew its
annual occupational license on or before August 15 of each year shall be
assessed a $5 per day penalty for each day after August 15 until the renewal is
obtained, up to a maximum of $150 in separate penalties, provided that this
penalty shall not apply to new permanent occupations making an initial
application for a permanent license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 2, § 19)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required; exclusions
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Investigation of applicant; issuance of licenses; fees
   
111.05   Revocation of license; term of license; renewal
   
111.06   Hours of solicitation; transfer and exhibition of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT OCCUPATION. Those occupations, trades, businesses, and
solicitations having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence, or
place of business within the town at which a permanent business is carried on
throughout the year or usual production season in good faith (and not for the
purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter), and shall include
occupations, trades, businesses, and solicitations housed in temporary stands
or quarters (including permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary
arrangement), or carried on by means of house-to-house solicitation or upon the
streets and sidewalks of the town; provided, however, that no occupation,
trade, or business engaged in by a charitable, educational, or religious
organization, association, or club, having a membership duly enrolled in
accordance with the rules, regulations, and bylaws of said organization,
association, or club and the majority of said members being residents of the
town or of the county shall be considered an ITINERANT OCCUPATION.
   PEDDLER. Shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER and shall mean any
person who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares, or merchandise of whatsoever nature, offering and
exposing the same for sale or who does not travel from place to place, and
shall sell or offer the same for sale from any vehicle or conveyance or on any
public street or thoroughfare.
   PERSON. Any individual, and shall not extend and be applied to firms,
corporations, or any other organizations.
   SOLICITOR and CANVASSER. A person who travels by foot or by any type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders from the same for goods, wares,
merchandise, or personal property of whatsoever nature for future delivery, or
for services to be furnished or performed in the future.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
peddler, solicitor, canvasser, or any other itinerant occupation within the
corporate limits of the town, without first obtaining a license therefor, as
provided in this chapter, and paying the prescribed fees to cover the
reasonable costs of investigation and processing of the application. The fee
shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer when the application is filed and
shall not be returnable under any circumstances. The Town Board of Trustees,
from time to time, may change such fee by ordinance, to an amount not to exceed
the reasonable costs of licensing and enforcement under this chapter.
   (B)   The following persons are hereby specifically excluded from the
application of the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to
dealers in such property; and
      (2)   Merchants growing their own local produce, and having regular
places of business in the town and their employees in taking orders at the
houses of their customers for goods held in stock at said places of business,
and in delivering the goods so ordered; such exclusion shall not apply to a
person who, personally or for another person, firm, or corporation, hires,
leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad box car,
boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop, or any other place within the
town, for the purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applicants for a license hereunder shall file with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, in duplicate, a sworn application in writing, on a form to be
furnished by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall give the following information:
      (1)   Full name, birth date, and Social Security number of each
individual applicant;
      (2)   Address, both legal and local;
      (3)   Nature of business and kinds of goods to be sold, and if the
applicant is a farmer or truck gardener, whether said goods are produced or
personally owned, cultivated, and controlled;
      (4)   If employed by another, the name and address of the applicant’s
employer, together with a brief description of credential showing the exact
relationship;
      (5)   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   Description and license number of any vehicle to be used; and
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of a felony, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   (C)   Each individual applicant for a license shall provide written proof
that the applicant will collect and remit state and local sales taxes to the
town, if required by state law and municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Each individual applicant for a license shall submit with the
application a surety bond or cash in the amount of $1,000, executed by the
applicant and by a surety company qualified to do business within the state.
The bond shall run in favor of the town, but action may be taken on the bond by
any citizen damaged by the applicant.
      (2)   If more than one applicant shall be employed by the same employer,
the employer may furnish the surety bond in lieu of the applicant, and the
amount of such bond shall be the total number of employees multiplied by
$1,000. The employer shall have the privilege of changing employees, but the
number of employees shall never exceed the amount listed in the original bond
filed. Any increase in the number of employees shall require either individual
surety bonds for the additional employees or an increase in the amount of the
original surety bond in the amount of $1,000 for each additional employee. Any
employer furnishing such a bond shall furnish to the Town Clerk/Treasurer a
current list of employees covered by the bond.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 3)
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall refer one copy to the Chief of Police, who shall note thereon any record
concerning the applicant which may appear from the official records and return
the same promptly to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall cause such other investigation or
inquiry to be made concerning the applicant as may be deemed necessary to
determine the character and business responsibility of the applicant and
whether the application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter.
   (C)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory and the
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, shall issue
the license together with any badge, tag, or other materials property an
accompaniment thereto.
   (D)   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in this chapter, the
applicant’s character or business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police or the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall endorse
upon such application disapproval thereof and the reasons therefor, and the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall then notify the applicant that the application has
been disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   (E)   Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the
Town Clerk/Treasurer in the denial of a license as provided in division (D)
above shall have the right to appeal therefrom to the Town Board of Trustees.
Such appeal shall be filed, in writing with the Town Board of Trustees, within
14 days after notice of the action complained of has been given to the
applicant personally or mailed, postage pre-paid, to the last known address
thereof. The Town Board of Trustees shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing. The decision and order of
the Town Board of Trustees on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
   (F)   A fee of $30 per day, $75 for three days, or $100 for seven days shall
be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer at the time of the application; revocation
of a license shall not be grounds for returning the license fee to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 4)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Town Clerk/Treasurer after notice has been served on the applicant for any
of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
carrying on business as a solicitor or canvasser;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any felony involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting any business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of revocation of a license shall be in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place for a hearing
where the decision to revoke may be appealed to the Town Board of Trustees.
Such notice shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in §
111.04(E), for notice of hearing on approval or an application for a license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 5)
§ 111.06 HOURS OF SOLICITATION; TRANSFER AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No solicitation shall be conducted between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and
9:00 a.m. each day, because of the need for public security and protection;
provided, however, that solicitations may be made where the person solicited
has agreed by previously arranged appointment for a time other than during the
prescribed hours.
   (B)   No license or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be used or worn at any time by any person other than the person to whom it was
issued.
   (C)   Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers, and other itinerant occupations are
required to exhibit and display their licenses or authorized evidence thereof
at all times, whenever they are engaged in peddling, canvassing, or soliciting.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § 6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $200, and is subject to revocation of any license issued by the town.
Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits
issued under the provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm, or
corporation in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 112: RECREATION, AMUSEMENTS, AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Shooting galleries
   
112.02   Pool, billiard, and other recreational halls; amusement devices
   
112.03   Garage sales; permits
Recreation Centers
   
112.15   Recreation centers defined
   
112.16   License required
   
112.17   License requirements
   
112.18   Prohibition of slot machines and punch boards
   
112.19   Regulations for operation
   
112.20   Suspension or revocation of license
Farmers’ Markets
   
112.35   Definitions
   
112.36   Permitted use and regulations
   
112.37   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up, or operated
hereafter, either permanently or temporarily, within the corporate limits of
the town, shall be constructed, established, set up, and operated in accordance
with the standards, specifications, and requirements of 63 O.S. §§ 701 through
709.2, as amended, and shall comply with all the requirements thereof. No
shooting gallery shall be operated until any licenses required by this code
have been secured therefor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 52) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 POOL, BILLIARD, AND OTHER RECREATIONAL HALLS; AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager, or operator to employ or
permit any minor (as defined by current state law) to work in a pool, billiard,
domino, or card hall or parlor; it shall be unlawful for any minor (as defined
by current state law) to work in such a hall or parlor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any hall or parlor
mentioned in division (A) above to permit any minor to loiter in such a hall or
parlor, or to play games therein, unless he or she is accompanied by a parent
or legal guardian; it shall be unlawful for a minor to loiter in such a hall or
parlor or to play games therein unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of a pool,
snooker, billiard, domino, or card hall or bowling alley to permit therein
gambling, betting, operation of a lottery, disorderly conduct, loud or
disturbing language, noise, loud music, profane language, or any other activity
in violation of state laws or municipal ordinances.
   (D)   Divisions (A) through (C) above shall not, however, apply to
establishments created as family entertainment and recreation centers for the
use and enjoyment of the entire family (regardless of age). It shall be
unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of such a family center to permit
the sale, furnishing, or drinking of alcoholic beverages therein.
   (E)   No person, firm, or corporation, either as principal or agent, shall
own, operate, lease, or permit to be operated on the business premises of such
person, firm, or corporation, any form of coin-operated machine or other device
intended for the use of, or used by, persons patronizing such business for such
person’s amusement or entertainment, including, but not limited to, bowling
machines, shuffleboards, pinball machines, and associated machines, and music
playing machines commonly called jukeboxes, without first paying the Town
Clerk/Treasurer the license fee hereinafter prescribed and procuring a license
therefor.
   (F)   The license fee prescribed above, unless otherwise specified on the
face of the license, shall be an annual license fee and shall expire on June 30
of each year. No license shall be issued until the amount prescribed therefor
has been paid in full to the Town Clerk/Treasurer. All licenses procured under
the provisions of this section shall be prominently displayed on, or in the
immediate vicinity and in clear view of, the machine for which it was
purchased. Licenses shall be signed by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, who shall
affix the corporate seal of the town thereto.
   (G)   The license fee imposed above shall be $5 per year, per machine or
shuffleboard. Licenses issued for a period of six months or less shall cost
$2.50 per machine and/or shuffleboard.
   (H)   A pool hall or billiard hall may operate, or be open for operation,
during the following specified hours only:
      (1)   Monday through Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. on the next
day; and
      (2)   Sunday from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Monday.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 54) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 GARAGE SALES; PERMITS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this code, GARAGE SALES are defined as those
advertised and conducted on property not zoned for commercial, industrial, or
other business use, and on which no state or municipal sales tax is paid.
   (B)   Garage sales shall be limited to three days a week for one garage
sale, per quarter, per year, except for charitable or not-for-profit
organizations.
   (C)   Before any garage sale is held, a garage sale permit shall be obtained
for each sale, from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Each permit shall cost $5 and shall have designated thereon the days
for which it shall be valid.
   (E)   Each permit shall be conspicuously displayed on the sale premises for
the duration of the sale.
   (F)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a garage sale permit book,
wherein are recorded all permits sold.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 57) Penalty, see §
112.99
   RECREATION CENTERS
§ 112.15 RECREATION CENTERS DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a RECREATION CENTER means any
place, business, or premises which maintains one or more pool tables, snooker
tables, or billiard tables, or one or more electronic video games, pinball
games, table games, or other similar device or service.
   (B)   Provided, that the following shall not be considered recreation
centers:
      (1)   Private homes;
      (2)   Duly licensed clubs dispensing alcoholic beverages for consumption
on the premises, taverns, bars, or dance halls;
      (3)   Churches and church recreation or activity centers; and
      (4)   Businesses where tables, games, machines, or devices are maintained
occupying floor space equivalent to less than 5% of the maximum occupancy of
the business, as established by the Building Code of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 41)
§ 112.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a recreation
center, as defined in this subchapter, without a valid annual license therefor
issued by the Clerk/Treasurer of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 42) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for an annual license shall be made on forms provided by
the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and shall expire on June
30 of each year.
   (C)   The annual fee for the license for the operation of a recreation
center shall be $25, payable upon issuance of the annual license.
   (D)   Holders of recreation center licenses shall conspicuously display such
licenses on the premises of the licensed recreation center.
   (E)   The application for an annual license to operate a recreational center
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, who must be the owner of the
recreational center;
      (2)   The location at which the applicant intends to conduct such
business and the telephone number, if available at the time of application, of
such business;
      (3)   The age of the applicant;
      (4)   The business and residence addresses of the applicant for the five
years next preceding the date of the filing of the application, and current
residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   The name(s) and age(s) of any partner(s) or other person(s) having
a financial interest in the recreational center for which the license
application is made and the business and residence addresses and telephone
numbers of such partner(s) and/or person(s) for the five years next preceding
the date of application;
      (6)   The name(s), age(s), current residence addresses, and residence
telephone number(s) of any manager(s) or operator(s) of such recreation center,
if other than the applicant, and the name(s), age(s), and current residence
addresses and telephone numbers of any person(s) employed who will have
supervisory control over the premises of the recreation center;
      (7)   The state sales tax permit number under which the business is to be
operated; and
      (8)   Whether anyone on the premises has or holds a United States
Internal Revenue license or special liquor dealer’s license.
   (F)   The application shall be verified by oath of the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 43) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 PROHIBITION OF SLOT MACHINES AND PUNCH BOARDS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to expose or operate in
his, her, or their place of business within the corporate limits of the town
any punch board or slot machine, which contains any element of chance, or in
the operation of which, chance plays any material part.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 44) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION.
   It shall be an offense punishable as hereafter set forth, for any recreation
center owner, manager, operator, or person having supervisory control thereof,
or employee to do, or permit to be done, any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a recreation center at any location in violation of the town’s
zoning ordinance;
   (B)   Violate any provision of this subchapter or other applicable provision
of this code;
   (C)   Violate any of the statutes of the state;
   (D)   Operate, or be open for operation, during hours other than specified,
as follows:
      (1)   Monday through Thursday: 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (3)   Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (4)   Sunday: 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.;
   (E)   Sell, barter, give away, or knowingly permit the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in or about the premises of such recreation center;
   (F)   Knowingly permit any intoxicated person, whether by alcohol, drugs, or
other substances, to be in or about the premises.
   (G)   Permit on the premises during a school day, between the hours of 8:30
a.m. and 11:30 a.m. and between 12:30 p.m. and 3:00 p.m., any person who is
under the age of 18 years and who is enrolled in either a public, private, or
parochial elementary, middle, or secondary school, except when accompanied by a
parent, legal guardian, or as part of a recognized school-sponsored activity;
or
   (H)   Permit any person not an employee to be or remain on the licensed
premises, or in that portion of the premises wherein the recreation activities
take place, more than 15 minutes after closing time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 45) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   All complaints concerning recreation centers shall be submitted
or forwarded to the Chief of Police for investigation. If the Chief of Police
finds that a violation of the provisions of this subchapter has been committed,
a complaint shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, setting forth the
alleged acts constituting the violation. Further, upon completion of any
complaint investigation, whether a complaint is filed or not, the Chief of
Police shall submit a written, fully detailed, investigation report to the
Mayor.
      (2)   (a)   Upon the filing of such a complaint by the Chief of Police,
the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall fix a date for hearing of the complaint by the
Town Board of Trustees, and shall cause to be served upon the licensee a copy
of the complaint and notice of the time and place of the hearing.
         (b)   Such complaint and notice of hearing shall be served not less
than 15 days prior to the date set for hearing. The complaint and notice of
hearing may be served upon the owner, manager, operator, partner, or person
shown on the license application as having supervisory control over the
premises of the recreation center or, if such person(s) may not be found, by
mailing the same by registered or certified mail addressed to such person(s) at
the licensed premises.
      (3)   (a)   At the hearing thereon, the complainant, the licensee, or any
interested person may be present and present such evidence as may be relevant
and material.
         (b)   If at the conclusion of the hearing, the Town Board of Trustees
finds that the complaint is justified, the Town Board of Trustees shall suspend
the license issued hereunder. Upon suspension of the license, the licensee
shall immediately cease operating as a recreation center.
   (B)   Following the revocation of any recreation center license, any
application for license as a recreation center upon the same premises shall not
be accepted by the Town Clerk/Treasurer for a period of 30 days following the
revocation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § 46)
FARMERS’ MARKETS
§ 112.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARM PRODUCTS. Fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey
or other bee products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products
(including meat, milk, cheese, and other dairy products), and fish.
   FARMERS’ MARKET.
      (1)   An outdoor market at a fixed location, open to the public, operated
by a governmental agency, a nonprofit corporation, or one or more producers, at
which:
         (a)   At least 75% of the vendors sell farm products or value-added
farm products; and
         (b)   At least 75% of the vendors who regularly participate during the
market’s hours of operation are producers, or family members or employees of
producers.
      (2)   (a)   The definition of FARMERS’ MARKET requires that FARMERS’
MARKETS meet two standards. First, it requires that 75% of the vendors sell
farm produce or products made from farm produce. This requirement ensures that
the preferential designation is reserved for those markets that sell
agricultural products. It distinguishes a FARMERS’ MARKET from a “flea market”
or “swap meet,” or other type of market, which may primarily sell crafts,
furniture, or other non-food items, or which sell foods other than agricultural
products. The vendor-based standard is a relatively simple one to monitor and
enforce.
         (b)   Second, the definition requires that a percentage of the vendors
are farmers engaged in DIRECT MARKETING, that is, farmers directly selling to
consumers the farm produce, or products made from farm produce, that the
farmers grew themselves.
         (c)   A SMALL FARMERS’ MARKET designation may help increase access to
fresh produce in neighborhoods that lack ready access to produce.
   PRODUCER. A person or entity that raises or produces farm products on land
that the person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
   VALUE-ADDED FARM PRODUCT. Any product processed by a producer from a farm
product, such as baked goods, jams, and jellies.
(Ord. 19-12-13, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 112.36 PERMITTED USE AND REGULATIONS.
   Farmers’ markets are a permitted use in the following zoning districts:
commercial, public, and city parks, subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Compliance with all laws. All farmers’ markets and their vendors
comply with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the
operation, use, and enjoyment of the market premises.
   (B)   Farmers’ markets and their vendors receive all required operating and
health permits, licenses, and certificates of insurance, and these documents
(or copies) shall be in the possession of the vendor, as applicable, on the
site of the farmers’ market during all hours of operation.
   (C)   (1)   Acceptance of payment from food assistance programs.
      (2)   For eligible goods or products sold, all farmers’ markets and their
vendors shall accept all forms of payment, or shall allow a legitimate and duly
authorized third party to occupy space within the farmers’ market area to
operate a redemption program, by participants of federal, state, or local food
assistance programs, including, but not limited to, the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP); Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Farmers’ Market
Nutrition Program; and the Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, all in a
manner allowed by, and in conformance with, both federal and state laws and
regulations, as those laws and regulations may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   All farmers’ markets have a market manager authorized to direct the
operations of all vendors participating in the market on the site of the market
during all hours of operation. The market manager must obtain all licenses and
prior approval from the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
   (E)   All farmers’ markets shall provide for a minimum of one vehicle
parking space for each vendor stall.
   (F)   All farmers’ markets provide for composting, recycling, and waste
removal in accordance with applicable codes. The farmers’ market manager is
responsible for ensuring that the site is restored to a neat condition by no
later than the end of the farmers’ market day.
   (G)   All farmer’s markets provide secure bicycle storage for their patrons.
(Ord. 19-12-13, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the Town Code
Officer. In addition, any official may enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-12-13, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.03 and 112.15 through 112.20, or any legal order or regulation made
pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200, not including costs. Each
day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 113: VEHICLE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Wrecker services
Taxicabs
   
113.15   Taxicabs; generally
   
113.16   Operator’s license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 WRECKER SERVICES.
    Any wrecker service desiring to render services to the town on a rotating
basis with other wrecker services shall be required to provide proof of
liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 and,
further, shall be required to purchase a named-insured rider identifying the
town as a named insured on any policy of liability insurance covering such
wrecker service.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 59) Penalty, see §
113.99
TAXICABS
§ 113.15 TAXICABS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term TAXICAB means any
vehicle carrying passengers for hire.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation within the town shall engage in intra-
city business without first having obtained from the Town Clerk/Treasurer a
license therefor, and without having complied with all other provisions of this
section and the provisions of 47 O.S.
   (C)   For the purpose of regulating the taxi business within the town, there
shall be assessed a license fee against each person, firm, or corporation
engaged in the business of carrying passengers for hire, in the sum of $25 per
year for each motor vehicle operated by said person, firm, or corporation; said
fee shall be payable in advance for each year of operation, or fractional part
thereof.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the taxi business within
the town is required to insure each motor vehicle engaged in said business, up
to $25,000 for injury to or death of one person, up to $50,000 for injury to or
death of more than one person, and up to $25,000 for property damages, with an
insurance company licensed to do business in the state. A copy of such policy
on each motor vehicle engaged in such business must be filed with the Town
Clerk/Treasurer at the time of payment of said license fee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate
one or more taxicabs within the corporate limits of the town without first
obtaining an annual taxicab operator’s license from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer may issue such license once the applicant
has:
      (1)   Paid the annual license fee of $25 for each taxicab;
      (2)   Filed with said Town Clerk/Treasurer proof of financial
responsibility (as outlined and required by 47 O.S. § 8-104); and
      (3)   Appeared before the Town Board of Trustees for a hearing on said
application.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees shall approve or disapprove the issuance of
the license, and shall cause the applicant to be notified of its decision and
the reason for disapproval (if applicable).
   (D)   A taxicab operator’s license shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (E)   Upon revocation or refusal to issue a license, the applicant may
request a new hearing before the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 56) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
113.01 or
113.15 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $200, and is subject to revocation of any
license issued by the town. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense. Conviction shall also void any and all
licenses and permits issued under the provisions of §§
113.01 or
113.15, to the person, firm, or corporation in violation of the provisions of
§§
113.01 or
113.15.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 7)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
113.16 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any amount not exceeding the limits established in §
32.99 of this code. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19, Art. 3)
CHAPTER 114: CHILD CARE CENTERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Permit application
   
114.04   Application review
   
114.05   Term of permit; renewals
   
114.06   Standards required; suspension of state license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHILD. An individual under the age of 16 years.
      CHILD CARE CENTERS. A general term which shall include day care centers
and family day care centers.
      DAY CARE CENTERS. A facility which provides care for three or more
children for six or more hours of the 24-hour day. This does not include
nursery schools, kindergartens, or other facilities for which the purpose is
primarily educational, recreational, or medical treatment.
      FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.
         (a)   A family home that provides care and protection for five or
fewer children for part of the 24-hour day.
         (b)   This definition does not include informal arrangements which
parents make independently with neighbors, friends, or others; neither does
this definition include caretakers within the children’s own home.
   (B)   All other words shall be defined according to appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 31)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, engage in, or operate in any manner a child
care center within the corporate limits of the town, without having first
obtained a permit as provided for in this chapter. A separate permit shall be
required for each location at which a child care center shall be operated.
   (B)   The permit fees shall be as provided by motion of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 32) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit for a child care center shall furnish to the
Town Clerk/Treasurer the following information:
      (1)   Full name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the proposed child care center operation; and
      (3)   An affidavit from the applicant certifying full compliance with the
licensing requirements and guidelines for child care centers established by the
state, and possession of a valid state license issued by the State Department
of Human Services or approval of such license by the local licensing service
(until said guidelines are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof).
   (B)   There shall be placed upon the location of the proposed child care
center a notice of application. Such notice shall be placed by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer or a designated representative in a conspicuous location which can be
clearly seen from the street. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   “Notice of application for child care center” in red letters which
can be read from the nearest public right-of-way;
      (2)   Name and address of applicant;
      (3)   Date of application;
      (4)   Final date of application review (14 days from the date of
application); and
      (5)   “Anyone wishing to challenge the granting of a municipal permit to
the above-named applicant should do so in writing to the office of the Town
Clerk/Treasurer no later than (final date of application review).”
   (C)   The application shall be received at least ten days prior to the final
date of application approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 33)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall review all applications for
child care center permits.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 34)
§ 114.05 TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS.
   Permits shall be issued for periods of one year and are subject to review
and termination by the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Such permits shall
expire on June 30 of each year. Application for renewal of such permits shall
be made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer upon a form to be provided by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 35)
§ 114.06 STANDARDS REQUIRED; SUSPENSION OF STATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No child care center shall be operated within the corporate limits of
the town unless a valid state license issued by the appropriate state agency
and all standards for day care centers, as established by state law, are
complied with.
   (B)   Upon suspension or revocation of the license issued by the state, it
is understood that the permit issued by the town shall be immediately revoked
until such time as state licensing is renewed, including further review by the
office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer to re-issue the municipal permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § 36) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $200, and is subject to revocation of any license issued by the town.
Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits
issued under the provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm, or
corporation in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Licensing and regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages
   
115.002   Reserved
   
115.003   Reserved
   
115.004   Reserved
   
115.005   Bottle clubs
Manufacture, Sale, and Distribution of Alcoholic Beverages
   
115.020   Purposes
   
115.021   Reserved
   
115.022   Signs
   
115.023   Advertising restricted
   
115.024   Separate premises required
   
115.025   Sales at retail; retail stores
   
115.026   Not to sell to intoxicated persons and the like
   
115.027   Transportation
   
115.028   Drinking and intoxication in public
   
115.029   Wholesalers not to sell to retailers on certain days
   
115.030   Not to permit drunk person in café, club, and the like
   
115.031   Revocation of license
Private Clubs
   
115.045   Definition
   
115.046   Application for license
   
115.047   Investigation
   
115.048   Issuance of license
   
115.049   Denial of license
   
115.050   Appeal
   
115.051   License fee
   
115.052   Expiration of license
   
115.053   Qualification of managers
   
115.054   Renewal
   
115.055   Regulations for operations
   
115.056   Display of license
   
115.057   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
115.058   Separate license required in each establishment
   
115.059   Other laws applicable
Intoxicating Beverages; Off-Premises Consumption
   
115.070   Definitions
   
115.071   License fee levied
   
115.072   License required
   
115.073   Compliance with law; expiration of license
   
115.074   Revocation of license
   
115.075   Hours of sale
   
115.076   Minors; sale and purchase
   
115.077   Drinking in public
Gatherings Where Minors Consume Alcoholic Beverages
   
115.090   Definitions
   
115.091   Consumption of alcohol by a minor
   
115.092   Hosting or permitting gatherings where minors consume alcohol
   
115.093   Exemptions
   
115.094   Reservation of legal options
 
   
115.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.001 LICENSING AND REGULATION OF SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beverages controlled by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board under the provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act,
37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., and Article XVIII of the State Constitution.
      LICENSES. Those lawful licenses issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board for the manufacture, distribution, and sale of alcoholic
beverages.
      RETAIL PACKAGE STORE. Premises authorized by lawful license issued by the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for the sale at retail of alcoholic
beverages in retail containers to consumers for consumption off the premises
and not for resale.
   (B)   Tax levied.
      (1)   There is hereby levied upon each person, partnership, firm, or
corporation holding a lawful license issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Board for a principal place of business located in the town, an annual
occupation tax in the following amounts.
Bottle Club                                           $250
Brewer’s                                            $1,000
Class B Wholesaler’s                                $500
Distiller’s                                         $2,500
Nonprofit as determined by I.R.S. (Bottle Clubs only) $125
Rectifier’s                                         $2,500
Retail Package Store                                  $100
Special Event                                         $2,000 per day
State Winemaker’s                                   $50
Wholesaler’s                                        $2,500
Winemaker’s                                         $500
 
      (2)   The above occupation taxes for a holder of a brewer’s license and
for a Class B wholesaler’s license shall be reduced by 75% if the license
holder is also the holder of a license to manufacture or wholesale any low-
point beer as provided for in 37 O.S. See 37A O.S. § 2-101.
   (C)   Date of expiration of license; proration.
      (1)   All occupation taxes levied under the provisions of this section
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
      (2)   (a)   The amount of any occupation tax levied shall be computed
prorated upon the months remaining in the year ending June 30.
         (b)   Such taxes paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month
shall be on the basis of the first day of said month, and such taxes paid after
the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the first day of the
next succeeding month.
   (D)   Tax to be paid. No brewer, distiller, winemaker, state winemaker,
rectifier, wholesaler, class B wholesaler, or retail package store shall do
business in the town, until the occupation tax levied by this section shall
have been paid in full to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and receipt issued therefor.
   (E)   Reserved for future use.
   (F)   Persons under 21.
      (1)   No holder of any license issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board shall employ any person under the age of 21 years of age in the
selling or handling of alcoholic beverages within the town.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, furnish, or give any alcoholic
beverage to any person under 21 years of age, or to any intoxicated, insane, or
mentally deficient person.
      (3)   No retail package store owner, operator, or employee shall permit
any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within, or loiter about
the premises of said store.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 years shall misrepresent his or her
age in writing or by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic beverage.
   (G)   Reports. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall make and transmit to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board an annual report showing the number and class
of licenses upon which occupation taxes were levied, and the amount collected
from such taxes.
   (H)   State codes adopted.
      (1)   The Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, as codified in 37A
O.S. §§ 1-101 through 6-129, and as amended by the state legislature from time
to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated, as if set out at length herein,
for the purpose of establishing ordinances regulating alcohol sales,
distribution, manufacturing, licensing, and consumption within the boundaries
and jurisdiction of the town.
      (2)   The Oklahoma Cocktails To Go Act, as codified in 37A O.S. §§ 7-101
through 7-107, and as amended by the state legislature from time to time, is
hereby adopted and incorporated, as if set out at length herein, for the
purpose of establishing ordinances regulating alcohol sales, distribution,
manufacturing, licensing and consumption within the boundaries and jurisdiction
of the town.
      (3)   State statute 37 O.S. § 532 titled “License a Privilege - Death of
License Holder, Effect of - Permit to Executors, Administrators, Guardians,
etc. - Limitation - Transfer to New Location After Endorsed Approval or
License” is hereby adopted and incorporated, as if set out at length herein,
for the purpose of establishing ordinances regulating alcohol licensing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 1) (Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.002 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 3, § 1) (Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 115.003 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 3, § 2) (Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 115.004 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 3, § 3) (Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 115.005 BOTTLE CLUBS.
   Bottle clubs may be licensed as provided in §§
115.045 through
115.059 of this code and applicable state law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 6)
   MANUFACTURE, SALE, AND DISTRIBUTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
§ 115.020 PURPOSES.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the town,
to preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof, and to
aid the enforcement of the police of the state as established by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, as codified in 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 through 6-129,
as amended by the state legislature from time to time, and the Oklahoma
Cocktails To Go Act, as codified in 37A O.S. §§ 7-101 through 7-107, as amended
by the state legislature from time to time.
(Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 115.021 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 9) (Ord. 2023-07-02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 115.022 SIGNS.
   No person owning, operating, or maintaining a retail alcoholic beverage
store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than one sign, which
shall contain only the words “retail alcoholic liquor store,” or any
combination of such words or any of them, and which shall contain no letter or
figure more than four inches in height or more than three inches in width, and
in which the lines of words, of more than one, shall not be more than one inch
apart.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 10) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.023 ADVERTISING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, in any manner, other
than as authorized by §
115.022, the sale of alcoholic beverages within the limits of this town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.024 SEPARATE PREMISES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, operate, or assist in any manner the
maintenance or operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store or package store
in premises which are not separate from adjoining premises on which any other
goods, wares, or merchandise are sold, or services are rendered, by
nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the
public is not admitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 12)
   (B)   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway
described in division (A) above, for the purpose of selling or re-selling such
beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of
such beverage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 13)
Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.025 SALES AT RETAIL; RETAIL STORES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages at a retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
         (a)   In retail containers;
         (b)   At ordinary room temperatures;
         (c)   In the original package; and
         (d)   For consumption off the premises.
      (2)   No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened,
on the premises of such store.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 14)
   (B)   No person shall drink or consume in any manner alcoholic beverages on
the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, nor shall any person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any such retail alcoholic beverage store.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 15)
   (C)   No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver in
consequence or in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverage at any
place in the town except at a retail alcoholic store in strict conformity with
this subchapter and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 16)
   (D)   No person shall own, operate, maintain, or be interested in any retail
alcoholic beverage store which is located at a place within this town which is
forbidden as a location for such store by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 17)
   (E)   No person, at any retail alcoholic beverage store in this town, shall
sell any alcoholic beverage on credit; provided, that acceptance by a retail
liquor store of a cash or debit card, or a nationally recognized credit card,
in lieu of actual cash payment does not constitute the extension of credit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 21)
   (F)   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no
person employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premiums, gift, or
similar inducement to a consumer in connection with a sale of alcoholic
beverage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 22)
Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.026 NOT TO SELL TO INTOXICATED PERSONS AND THE LIKE.
   No person, at any place within this town, shall sell, deliver, or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverage to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 18) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.027 TRANSPORTATION.
   No person within this town shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, or alley any alcoholic beverage unless such alcoholic beverage
is:
   (A)   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view, and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 19) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.028 DRINKING AND INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person within this town shall drink intoxicating liquor in any public
place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within this town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 20) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.029 WHOLESALERS NOT TO SELL TO RETAILERS ON CERTAIN DAYS.
   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent, or
employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store in the town any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any
week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on Memorial Day, on the Fourth
of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans’ Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day,
or while the polls are open, on the day of any general, primary, runoff
primary, or special election, whether national, state, county, or town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 23) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.030 NOT TO PERMIT DRUNK PERSON IN CAFÉ, CLUB, AND THE LIKE.
   No person operating a café, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation
within this town, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of
such a café, restaurant, or club, or place in such places of business shall
permit any person to become drunk or intoxicated in such a café, restaurant, or
club.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 24) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.031 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall, in addition to
the penalties provided in §
115.999, be cause for revocation of the license issued to any such person,
partnership, firm, or corporation, and the same may be thus revoked by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees, and upon such revocation, no part of
the license fee paid shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 27)
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 115.045 DEFINITION.
   (A)   (1)   A PRIVATE CLUB, for the purposes hereof, is defined as any
person, firm, corporation, or association maintaining, operating, leasing,
licensing, or otherwise furnishing to or for the use of its members any
premises or place whereon such members may engage in the consumption of
alcoholic beverages, as defined by the statutes of the state, either for a fee,
or for any other considerations, including the sale of food, mixers, ice, or
any other fluids for the use of consumption with alcoholic beverages or wherein
the space for storage of alcoholic beverages is furnished.
      (2)   The term PRIVATE CLUB shall be deemed to include key clubs, bottle
clubs, locker clubs, pool clubs, country clubs, business clubs, social clubs,
or any other kind of club or association which excludes the general public from
its premises or place of meeting or congregating, and which exercises control
over any place where persons are permitted to consume alcoholic beverages other
than in a private home.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, PRIVATE CLUBS shall be divided
into two classes, having the characteristics and qualifications as hereinabove
set forth, to be known as CLASS A PRIVATE CLUBS and CLASS B PRIVATE CLUBS,
which notwithstanding the special qualifications, shall be the definition
hereinabove set forth.
   (B)   CLASS A PRIVATE CLUBS shall include those clubs, associations, or
corporations falling within the general term PRIVATE CLUB as defined in
division (A) above, which are charitable, eleemosynary, educational, to these
characteristics, CLASS A PRIVATE CLUBS shall be only those clubs, associations,
or corporations which hold and maintain an income-exempt status under the
regulations and rulings of the Internal Revenue Service of the United States,
and no Class A license shall be issued except upon production of evidence
satisfactory to the chief of police of the town that the applicant falls within
the requirements for a CLASS A PRIVATE CLUB.
   (C)   CLASS B PRIVATE CLUBS shall be all other clubs, associations, or
corporations operating as a private club under the definition set forth in
division (A) above, the operation of which constitutes a commercial venture,
and which club, association, or corporation does not hold or maintain an income
tax-exempt status under the rules and regulations of the Internal Revenue
Service of the United States.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 31)
§ 115.046 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for licenses to be issued hereunder shall be upon forms prepared
and made available by the Chief of Police, and shall state:
   (A)   The name of the owner of the real estate and fixtures for which the
license is to be issued and the description of such real estate;
   (B)   If the applicant is not the owner of such real estate and fixtures,
and a copy of the lease or other arrangements under which such applicant holds
possession thereof shall be attached to the application;
   (C)   The full name, age, residence, present and previous employment record
of the applicant, or if the applicant is an association or corporation, such
information concerning the operators, managers, partners, and persons having
supervisory control over the premises thereof;
   (D)   The length of time the applicant has been a bona fide resident or
authorized to do business in the state immediately preceding the filing of the
application;
   (E)   A full statement setting forth the facts as to membership requirements
or any other arrangement under which the applicant allows members, other
persons, including guests or temporary members, to have access to the premises
and to store or consume alcoholic beverages thereon;
   (F)   The applicant shall agree, upon making his, her, or their application
hereunder, to maintain a list of the names of members of the club, which list
shall be kept on the premises of the club and be subject to inspection at all
times;
   (G)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the regulatory
provisions of this subchapter, each applicant at the time of making application
herein for either Class A or Class B license shall execute an agreement
relating to inspection in each of the two classes of private clubs, as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Applicants for Class A private club license shall agree that
said premises may be inspected by an officer of the Police Department
specifically designated on each inspection by the Chief of Police of the town,
which inspection shall be conducted after reasonable notice, and in the
presence and company of the chief executive officer of the Class A private
club, or its licensed manager, operator, partner, or person having supervisory
control over the premises.
         (b)   In the absence, illness, or disability of the Chief of Police,
the Chief of Police may designate an officer to make such inspections.
      (2)   (a)   Applicants for Class B private clubs license shall execute an
agreement that the premises covered by said application may be inspected by any
officer of the Police Department of the town at any time such premises are
occupied.
         (b)   Provided, that any officer making such an inspection shall
forthwith, and in no event later than 48 hours after such inspection, make a
complete report in writing certifying that fact of such inspection and the
results thereof.
      (3)   Failure or refusal to permit immediate inspection of the premises
in the manner aforesaid with respect to each class of private club shall
constitute grounds for revocation of a license issued hereunder; and
   (H)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find reasonably
necessary to execute the general purpose of this subchapter, and to make a fair
determination of the moral qualifications of the applicant and the managers and
operators thereof. Each application for both Class A and Class B license shall
be accompanied by an application fee of $25, which fee shall be forwarded by
the Chief of Police to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and deposited in the general
fund of the town. All applications for a license by applicants who are unable
to qualify as a Class A private club shall be accompanied by photographs of the
applicants, or the operators, partners, managers, or supervisory personnel
thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 32)
§ 115.047 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license for the operation of a private
club, the Chief of Police shall promptly cause an investigation to be made of
the applicant and of the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the
private club.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 33)
§ 115.048 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police shall authorize the issuance of a Class A private club
license or a Class B private club license, as the case may be, for the
operation of a private club hereunder, when he or she finds, after
investigation:
   (A)   The applicant, or if the applicant is a corporation or association,
the proposed operators, partners, or managers, are of good moral character, and
that if the application is for a Class A private club license, the applicant
does, in fact, hold and maintain a tax-exempt status under rules and
regulations of the Internal Revenue Service of the United States;
   (B)   The applicant, or if the applicant is a corporation or association,
the proposed operators, managers, or partners have never been convicted of any
felony;
   (C)   The manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the private club
does not violate any of the provisions of the statutes and regulations of the
state, or the ordinances of the town, including those relating to alcoholic
beverages; and
   (D)   The general public will, in fact, be excluded from the premises
operated by the private club.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 34)
§ 115.049 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a license for the
operation of a private club within ten days after the filing thereof. If the
Chief of Police disapproves and denies the application, he or she shall notify
the applicant in writing within five days after the denial thereof, giving the
reasons for his or her denial of the license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 35)
§ 115.050 APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association whose application
for private license for the operation of a private club is denied shall have
the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Notice of the appeal stating the grounds therefor shall be filed
with the Chief of Police and the Town Clerk/Treasurer within five days after
receipt of the notice of denial. Within ten days thereafter, the Board of
Trustees shall hold a public hearing upon the appeal, at which hearing both the
applicant and the Chief of Police, and other interested parties, may present
such evidence as they deem advisable.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of
Trustees shall affirm or reverse the denial of the license for the operation of
a private club.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 36)
§ 115.051 LICENSE FEE.
   A license shall be issued to a successful applicant for either a Class A or
a Class B private club license by the Town Clerk/Treasurer upon the payment of
an annual license fee of $600.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 37)
§ 115.052 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 of each year. For
the first issuance of the license, the annual fee shall be prorated on a
quarterly basis.
   (B)   The full annual fee shall be collected regardless of the issuance date
for the renewal of an existing license to the same license, or for a license
issued to a licensee to whom a license for a private club was issued in the
previous calendar year.
   (C)   Licenses hereunder shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 38)
§ 115.053 QUALIFICATION OF MANAGERS.
   (A)   (1)   The managers, partners, operators, or persons having supervisory
control over the premises of the private club shall be identified upon the
license.
      (2)   Each manager, partner, operator, or person having supervisory
control over the premises of a private club shall make application to the Chief
of Police as herein provided, and shall be approved by said Chief of Police as
to his or her personal qualifications.
   (B)   An application for a change in or addition to the managers, partners,
operators, or persons having supervisory control over the premises of a private
club shall be accompanied by an application fee of $5.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 39) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.054 RENEWAL.
   Upon the expiration of the term of a license issued hereunder, the Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue renewal licenses to all licensees whose licenses
have not been revoked upon the payment of the annual license fee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 40)
§ 115.055 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATIONS.
   It shall constitute an offense, punishable as hereinafter set forth, and
grounds for the revocation or suspension of a license issued hereunder for any
private club, or operator, partner, or manager, or person having supervisory
control thereof, or employee, to do, or permit to be done, any of the following
acts:
   (A)   Violate any of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Violate any of the statutes of this state pertaining to alcoholic
beverages;
   (C)   Violate any of the regulations promulgated by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board of the state;
   (D)   Consume or permit the consumption of any alcoholic beverages on any
licensed premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., on any other
day of the week other than Sunday; provided, that on special occasions for good
cause show, and if in the opinion of the Chief of Police, the public peace,
health, or welfare will not be endangered, said hours may be enlarged for such
special event by obtaining prior permission in writing from said Chief of
Police;
   (E)   Permit any person not an employee to remain on the licensed premises
where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is usually permitted as part of
the operation of the private club after 2:00 a.m., on Saturday and Sunday, or
after 12:00 a.m., on any other day of the week and before the next regular
opening hour provided that all clubs shall be closed from 12:00 a.m. on Sunday
morning until regular opening hours on the following Monday;
   (F)   Serve to or allow any intoxicated person to consume any alcoholic
beverages on the premises so licensed;
   (G)   Permit any person under the age of 21 years to consume intoxicating
alcoholic beverages on the premises;
   (H)   Permit any intoxicated person to be or remain on the licensed
premises;
   (I)   Serve or permit to be served any intoxicating alcoholic beverages to
any person under the age of 21 years;
   (J)   Permit any person under the age of 21 years to serve any intoxicating
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises; and/or
   (K)   Allow any incompetent or mentally deranged person to be served or
consume any alcoholic beverages on the premises.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 41) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.056 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every private club issued a license hereunder shall place and exhibit the
same at all times while in force in some conspicuous place upon the premises
licensed and shall produce or exhibit the same when applying for a renewal
thereof. The entrance of every private club shall be marked plainly “private
club members only.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 42) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.057 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may suspend, for not more than 15 days, or
revoke licenses issued hereunder if, after public hearing, as hereinafter
provided, the Board of Trustees finds that the holder of the license had made a
material misstatement in the application for a license, or the renewal thereof,
or has violated any of the provisions of §
115.056.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall investigate complaints concerning private
clubs, and if he or she finds that a violation of the provisions hereof has
been committed, he or she shall file a complaint with the Town Clerk/Treasurer
setting forth the alleged acts constituting the violation. Upon the filing of
such a complaint, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall fix a date for hearing of said
complaint by the Board of Trustees and shall cause to be served upon said
licensees a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing shall be served upon
the manager, operator, partner, or person shown on the license as having
supervisory control over the premises of the club, or if such person may not be
found by mailing the same by certified mail, addressed to such person at the
licensed premises or any interested person may be present and present such
evidence as may be relevant and material. If at the conclusion of such hearing,
the Board of Trustees finds that the licensee has had a material misstatement
in the application for license or renewal thereof, or has violated any of the
provisions of §
115.056, the Board of Trustees shall suspend, for not more than 15 days, or
revoke the license issued hereunder. Upon suspension or revocation, the
licensees shall immediately cease operation as a private club.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 43)
§ 115.058 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED IN EACH ESTABLISHMENT.
   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment of any
private club, and each license shall authorize the operation of a private club
only at the location described in such license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 44) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.059 OTHER LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to exempt any
person, firm, corporation, or association operating a private club from
compliance with any other applicable ordinance of the town not in conflict
herewith.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 45)
INTOXICATING BEVERAGES; OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION
§ 115.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume, and more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 4, § 54)
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or concessionaire
who sells, distributes, or dispenses at retail any intoxicating beverage within
the corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where such
beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 46)
§ 115.071 LICENSE FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in intoxicating
beverages for consumption on and off the premises, an annual municipal license
fee of $20.
   (B)   All such municipal license fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer at the time of issuance of license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 47)
§ 115.072 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, to
sell, distribute, or dispense any intoxicating beverages without having first
received a municipal license as herein required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 48) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.073 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained
all state and county permits required by law, and has in all other respects
complied with the beverage laws.
   (B)   All such licenses shall expire on June 30. No license shall be
transferable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 49)
§ 115.074 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power, after public hearing, to revoke
any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license
holder.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 50)
§ 115.075 HOURS OF SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell intoxicating
beverages for consumption off the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m., and
7:00 a.m., on any day; or to sell low-point beer for consumption on the
premises at any time when such sale is prohibited by state law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 51) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.076 MINORS; SALE AND PURCHASE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, offer for sale,
give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense to any minor any intoxicating
beverage; or for any minor to purchase, receive, or procure any intoxicating
beverage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 52) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.077 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to drink any
intoxicating beverage while such person is upon any public street, alley, or
other public highway, or in any public building or other public place within
the town.
   (B)   Provided, this shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking
such beverage in a place licensed to sell it for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 5, § 53) Penalty, see §
115.999
GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 115.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances. This term includes
intoxicating beverages and low-point beer as defined herein.
   GATHERING. A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW-POINT BEER. Beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume, and
not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain, malt, or similar products.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
step-parent of another person.
   PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire,
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
      (2)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
      (3)   The cost of repairing any town equipment or property damaged, and
the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
      (4)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 57)
§ 115.091 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY A MINOR.
   Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   (A)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public alcoholic
beverage; or
   (B)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 58) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.092 HOSTING OR PERMITTING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUME ALCOHOL.
   (A)   (1)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering.
      (2)   Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic beverages at
the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the
gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering by inspecting
drivers’ licenses or other government-issued identification cards to ensure
that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the gathering; and
supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 59) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.093 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 60)
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter should be interpreted to prohibit any
family activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use
of alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 61)
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
non-religious gathering.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 62)
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
to dispense alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 63)
   (E)   This subchapter shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state
or federal law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 66)
Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.094 RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS.
   Violations of this subchapter may be prosecuted by the town criminally,
civilly, and/or administratively as provided by this code. The town may seek
administrative fees and response costs associated with enforcement of this
subchapter through all remedies or procedures provided by statute, ordinance,
or law. This subchapter shall not limit the authority of peace officers or
private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of
conduct regulated by this subchapter, nor shall they limit the town’s ability
to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same
circumstances necessitating the application of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 65)
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
115.020 through
115.031 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined
in any sum not to exceed $260 inclusive of court costs and/or up to 30 days in
jail. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 2, § 26)
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
115.070 through
115.077 or any legal order or regulation made pursuant thereto, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $200, not including costs. Each day upon which a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 7, § 56)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
115.090 through
115.094 shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished with a fine of $500, or by imprisonment
not exceeding 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, plus all court
costs and statutory penalties, as set forth in §
32.99. The provisions of division (C) above shall not apply to the penalty for
violations of §§
115.090 through
115.094.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Art. 8, § 64)
CHAPTER 116: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Restrictions on marijuana
   
116.03   Restrictions applicable to all permits
   
116.04   Permit inspections and other requirements
   
116.05   Prohibited acts
   
116.06   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
   
116.07   Fees
Medical Marijuana Retailers
   
116.20   Permit requirements
   
116.21   Location restrictions
   
116.22   Conditions of operation
Commercial Growers
   
116.35   Permit requirements
   
116.36   Location restrictions
   
116.37   Conditions of operation
Marijuana Processors
   
116.50   Permit requirements
   
116.51   Location restrictions
   
116.52   Conditions of operation
   
116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, words and phrases shall have the meaning as
defined pursuant to the rules adopted by the State Department of Health, O.A.C.
310:681-1-1 et seq., and as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 116.02 RESTRICTIONS ON MARIJUANA.
   The growing, possession, processing, transporting, sale, or use of marijuana
within the town is limited to that authorized by this chapter and by state law,
63 O.S. §§ 420A et seq.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL PERMITS.
   (A)   All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place at all times on the permitted premises. No permit holder may
consent to or allow the use or display of the permit by a person other than the
person to whom the permit was issued.
   (B)   No person may use a permit or exercise any privileges granted by the
permit except at the place, address, premises, or location for which the permit
is issued. Permits issued cover only the person or entity named in the permit
and shall not be refundable or transferable.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection of
the facilities by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state-issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No commercial marijuana establishment shall allow the consumption of
alcohol, medical marijuana, or medical marijuana products on the premises.
   (B)   No commercial marijuana establishment shall employ any person under
the age of 18.
   (C)   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property,
including, but not limited to, vehicles, buildings, parks, or other facilities.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE.
   (A)   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
are required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit fee shall
be the amount set forth in §
116.07. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of marijuana
growing facilities for personal medical use.
   (C)   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failure to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent at all times, except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   (E)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (F)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (G)   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing, or electrical
components used, shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold, or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane, and the like) or CO2 and ozone generators in
the growing area is prohibited.
   (H)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (I)   (1)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana
is grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning
cooking, eating, sleeping, and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper
ingress and egress.
      (2)   No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation
will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping, or
sanitation/bathing.
   (J)   (1)   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall
be obtained prior to any cultivation commencing.
      (2)   This consent must be evidenced by a signed and notarized statement
from the property owner permitting the growth of marijuana in the residence.
   (K)   Cultivated marijuana must be used exclusively pursuant to a valid
state issued medical marijuana license. Any other or unapproved usage shall
result in revocation of the license.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 FEES.
   (A)   Marijuana business and personal use permits fees shall be $2,500 per
year. The amount of said fees may be amended by resolution.
   (B)   All fees levied under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
June 30 of each year.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019)
MEDICAL MARIJUANA RETAILERS
§ 116.20 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All retailers of medical marijuana are required to obtain a medical
marijuana retailer permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The medical marijuana retailer permit fee shall be the amount set
forth in §
116.07 of this code. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses
covering costs related to permitting, inspection, administration, and
enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   (C)   A medical marijuana retailer permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside an approved zoning
district as set forth in the zoning code of the town, or within a restricted
area as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.21 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A medical marijuana retailer permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of any
of the following locations: Any private or public preschool, elementary,
secondary, vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this subchapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in division (A) above is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed medical marijuana retailer establishment would be
located.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.22 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
   (B)   The medical marijuana retailer establishment must collect the
applicable sales tax on all sales.
   (C)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall be closed on Sundays as well as
Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4, and New Year’s Day.
   (D)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
medical marijuana retailer permit.
   (E)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this subchapter be
construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
COMMERCIAL GROWERS
§ 116.35 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All commercial growers of marijuana are required to obtain a marijuana
commercial grower permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The marijuana commercial grower permit fee shall be the amount set
forth in §
116.07 of this code. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses
covering costs related to permitting, inspection, administration, and
enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   (C)   A marijuana commercial grower permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside an approved zoning
district as set forth in the zoning code of the town, or within a restricted
area as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.36 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A marijuana commercial grower permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the state proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet
of any of the following locations: any private or public preschool, elementary,
secondary, vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this subchapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in division (A) above is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed marijuana commercial grower facility would be
located.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.37 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   A marijuana commercial grower permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside an approved zoning
district as set forth in the zoning code of the town, or within a restricted
area as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Growing of marijuana pursuant to a marijuana commercial grower permit
shall be within an enclosed structure. The facility shall have a security fence
at least ten feet in height and with limited access. The gates to the secure
area must be locked at all times.
   (C)   The marijuana commercial grower facility must be constructed in such a
manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public
from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing, or electrical
components used shall comply with town building, fire, and other applicable
codes.
   (E)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare, or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (F)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this subchapter be
construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
MARIJUANA PROCESSORS
§ 116.50 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All marijuana processors are required to obtain a marijuana processor
permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The marijuana processor permit fee shall be the amount set forth in §
116.07. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to permitting, inspection, administration, and enforcement of marijuana
processing facilities.
   (C)   A marijuana processor permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location is located outside an approved zoning district as
set forth in the zoning code of the town, or within a restricted area as
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.51 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A marijuana processor permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of any of the
following locations: any private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this subchapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in division (A) above is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed marijuana processor facility would be located.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.52 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where marijuana processing occurs must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   (B)   The marijuana processor facility must collect the applicable sales tax
on all sales.
   (C)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall be closed on Sundays as well as
Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4, and New Year’s Day.
   (D)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
marijuana processor permit.
   (E)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this subchapter be
construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
   (F)   Processing facilities must remain locked at all times when not in
operation. The facility must have an electronic security system and have an
appropriate security fence that must be at least ten feet tall around the
facility.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any growing, possession, processing, transporting, sale, or use of marijuana
within the town that is not authorized in, or without having obtained the
applicable permit provided in this chapter, shall constitute an offense and,
upon conviction, shall be punished as authorized in §
32.99.
(Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 117: MISCELLANEOUS SALES AND SERVICES
Section
   
117.01   Sale of merchandise on vacant property
   
117.02   Short weights and measures prohibited
   
117.03   Pawnbrokers
   
117.04   Junkyards and salvage yards
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, trade, or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of said property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 51) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer
for sale, any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh
or measure fully as much, according to standard weights and measures of the
state, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 53) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register, in which shall be recorded an
adequate description of all property purchased, taken, or received, including
any number that may be thereon. The following information shall be recorded in
the register:
      (1)   The date when all property is received;
      (2)   The name of the person leaving the property;
      (3)   The address of said person; and
      (4)   The time when the loan is to become due.
   (B)   The pawnbroker shall give, without charge to the person leaving or
pledging property, a legible ticket containing a true copy of all entries made
in the register concerning the property left or pledged.
   (C)   The register herein required to be kept shall be subject to inspection
at any time by the Chief of Police, any police officer, the County Sheriff, or
any Deputy Sheriff, the Town Attorney, the District Attorney, or any person
authorized in writing to make such inspection by the Chief of Police. Upon
request, the pawnbroker will show to such officer or person for inspection any
article or articles purchased, taken, or received, unless such article or
articles have already been disposed of.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 55) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the terms JUNKYARD or SALVAGE YARD
shall mean any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk or for the
maintenance or operation of the storage of vehicles or trailers as a source of
parts or a vehicle or trailer graveyard; the terms shall also include garbage
dumps and sanitary landfills.
   (B)   No junkyard or salvage yard shall be located nearer than 50 feet from
any right-of-way.
   (C)   All junkyards and salvage yards shall be screened from view of any
road or highway running adjacent thereto, by the construction of a sight-proof
fence (with a minimum height of at least eight feet), or such material as may
be approved by the Town Board of Trustees, or by the planting of appropriately
sized shrubbery.
   (D)   No junkyard or salvage yard shall be operated in such a manner as to
cause the creation of a public nuisance to the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the surrounding area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 6, § 58) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $500, and is subject to revocation of any license issued by the town.
Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits
issued under the provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm, or
corporation in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5, Art. 7)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES IN GENERAL
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY, AND POLICY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES IN GENERAL
Section
   
130.01   Offenses defined
   
130.02   Attempt to commit an offense
   
130.03   Effect of intoxication
   
130.04   Aiding in an offense
   
130.05   State statute adopted by reference
§ 130.01 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   An OFFENSE is hereby defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by this
title or any ordinance of the town, is prohibited, forbidden, or declared to be
unlawful, or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which, by
any provisions of this title or by any ordinance of the town, is commanded or
required to be done.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 130.02 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempt to commit an offense against this code, and in such
attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense, but fails, is
prevented, or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, shall be guilty of any
offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the offense itself.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 130.03 EFFECT OF INTOXICATION.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of said person being in such condition.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 1, § 3)
§ 130.04 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such, shall be guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 1, § 4)
§ 130.05 STATE STATUTE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Provision of 21 O.S., as amended, which are applicable to the town are
hereby adopted and incorporated in this code, as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 1, § 5)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY, AND POLICY
Section
   
131.01   Gambling prohibited
   
131.02   False or bogus checks
   
131.03   Harmful deception
   
131.04   Obstruction and trespassing
   
131.05   Offenses relating to controlled substances
   
131.06   Immoral conduct, shows, or exhibitions; nudity
   
131.07   Prostitution; illicit or sexual relations
   
131.08   Certain conduct prohibited on or near school grounds
   
131.09   Alcoholic beverages
   
131.10   Intoxicating beverages
   
131.11   Contributing to delinquency of minors
   
131.12   Cigarettes to minors
   
131.13   Curfew for minors
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play,
open, or cause to be opened, operate, carry on, or conduct any game of
roulette, craps, or any percentage game played with dice, for money, checks,
chips, credit, or any other things of value; or shall set up, operate, or
permit to be operated, any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money,
checks, chips, credit, or any other things of value are played, when the act of
playing the same might result in a gain or loss to the party playing; or shall
gamble knowingly in any other similar manner; or knowingly shall permit
premises, houses, lots, or other property controlled by said entities, to be
used in connection with or for, any act declared unlawful in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat or defraud,
to obtain or attempt to obtain, from any person, firm, or corporation, any
money, property, or valuable thing by means of any false or bogus check or by
any other written, printed, or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term
FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for money or property
which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay the
same, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   (B)   The making, drawing, issuing, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, that such maker or drawer shall
not have paid the drawee the amount due thereof, together with the protest
fees, within five days from the date the same is presented for payment;
provided further, that said check or order is presented for payment within 30
days after the same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 12) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise) when such deception results in,
or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
a third party, or results in, or contributes to, the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 13) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTION AND TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., to sleep upon any street or in any other
public place, or on any property of another person without the express or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to or trespass
in or about any public building, in or about the station or depot of a public
transportation carrier, or on or about the premises of a public or private
school.
   (C)   No person shall be or remain in the immediate vicinity where a person
or persons are gambling by the use of any means or device.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or remain, either alone
or in consort with others, in a public place or buildings, in such a manner as
to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk, or any other public
place or building by hindering, impending, or tending to hinder or impede the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians; or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or any
other public place or building, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing, or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk, or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, and regress therein,
thereon, and thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 14) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 OFFENSES RELATING TO CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic or
other controlled dangerous substance to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, place of business, or other public place within the town, or:
   (A)   For any person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous
substance upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or other public
place within said town;
   (B)   for any person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous
substance in any place within said town, except as legally prescribed by a
physician licensed to practice in the state;
   (C)   For any person to loiter about a place where any narcotic or other
controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished illegally; or
   (D)   For any person to sell or furnish illegally to another person any
narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 15) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS, OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct themselves
in a lewd or immoral manner, or make any insulting or licentious advance or
salutation to any person, in any public place within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to show in a public place obscene or immoral
motion pictures or present any kind of a show or exhibition.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place
within the town in a state of total nudity, or for any person or persons to
make an indecent public exposure of themselves.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to publicly display pornographic magazines or
books for sale in any store within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any
publicly exposed place within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 16) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT OR SEXUAL RELATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS shall mean
sexual relations with any person other than one’s lawful husband or wife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit, or give himself
or herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual relations, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral vocation, or to consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose, in any public place within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any
agent or employee thereof, to keep, or assist in keeping, a house of
prostitution, or a house or place within the town, where persons meet or
assemble for illicit sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute of other
person engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring, or
attempt to procure, any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any
other immoral purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 17) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein, around or on the grounds of, any school in the town, or in any street,
alley, or public area adjacent to a school:
   (A)   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school, an employee thereof, or student therein;
   (B)   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   (C)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (D)   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   (E)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto, in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 18) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
misrepresent said person’s age through false documentation for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell alcoholic beverages to said person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to have in
his, her, or their possession any alcoholic beverages, while such person is
upon any street, alley, road, or highway, or in any public place within the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open a retail container or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
   (D)   No person drunk or in a state of intoxication shall appear, or be upon
or in, any street, alley, place of business, or other public place, nor shall
any person drink any alcoholic beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of
business, or other public place within the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon
any street, alley, or other public way within the town any alcoholic beverage,
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal
of which shall not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the
trunk or any closed compartment or other container out of public view and out
of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, to buy,
receive, posses, sell, barter, give away, manufacture, or use any alcoholic
beverages in violation of the State Constitution and laws or this code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 19) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 115
§ 131.10 INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase,
receive, or procure any intoxicating beverage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to work in a
place where intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises,
except an eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the
main business of serving food.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to be
in possession of, or to drink, any intoxicating beverage while such person is
upon any public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public
building or other public place, within the town; provided, that shall not
prohibit a person who is of age from drinking such beverage in a place licensed
to sell it for consumption on the premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any moving
vehicle, upon any public highway, street, alley, or roadway within the
corporate limits of the town, or in or upon any property owned by said town
outside of its corporate limits, any intoxicating beverage, except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 20) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 115
§ 131.11 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   (A)   A MINOR or CHILD shall include male or female persons who shall not
have arrived at the age of 18 years at the time of the commission of the
offense.
   (B)   A DELINQUENT CHILD shall include a minor who shall have been, or is,
violating any penal statute of this state or who commits any offense listed in
this code.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully cause,
aid, abet, or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent
child, as defined herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 21) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 CIGARETTES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, barter, give
away, or otherwise furnish cigarettes or tobacco in any form to a minor, or to
permit such minor to frequent any premises owned, held, or managed by said
person, for the purpose of indulging in the use of cigarettes or tobacco in any
form.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 22) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor as a natural or
adoptive parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands in loco, or as a
person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, or any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public; it shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more person in which any minor involved would not be using the
streets, for ordinary or serious purposes, such as mere passage or going home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel, or in the case of
a sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel; the term STREET includes the legal
right-of-way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a STREET.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Savings Time, generally observed at
that hour by the public.
      TOWN. The Town of West Siloam Springs, Delaware County, State of
Oklahoma.
      YEARS OF AGE. Shall continue from one birthday, such as seventeenth to
(but not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday,
making it clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to
the phrase “under 18 years of age.”
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18)
to be or remain in or upon the streets within the town, at night during the
period ending at 6:00 a.m. and beginning:
      (1)   At 11:00 p.m. on Sunday morning through Thursday; and
      (2)   At 1:00 a.m. on Saturday morning and Sunday morning.
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a public street, during
the nocturnal hours for which division (B) above is intended to provide the
maximum limits of regulation, shall not, however, be considered in violation:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor
to take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated period
of time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly; such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by processing a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned by a parent of such minor, with their home address and telephone
number, specifying when, where, and in what manner said minor will be on the
streets at night in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such
communication;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has, in said
minor’s possession, a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor, evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets, at a
designated time, for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor but communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from school activity, or an
activity of a religious or voluntary association;
      (7)   When authorized, by a regulation issued by the Town Board of
Trustees, in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled,
but adapted to necessary nighttime activities, or more minors than can readily
be dealt with on an individual special permit basis; normally such regulation
by the Town Board permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently
in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other
agencies, such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the
use of the streets permitted, the period of time involved (not to extend more
than 30 minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity), and the
reason for finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and consistent
with the public interest and the purposes of this section; and/or
      (8)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his or her home and his or her place of
employment, and his or her hours of employment, or carries a valid proof of
employment which may include the latest payroll receipt, not over 30 days old;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle; this
contemplates normal travel and clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the town, particularly on normal routes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, having legal custody of a minor, to
knowingly permit or, by inefficient control, to allow such minor to be, or
remain upon, any public street under circumstances not constituting an
exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this section. The term
KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s legal custody. It
is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, a fortiori, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities, or conduct, or whereabouts of such minor.
   (E)   A police officer of the town, upon finding or having attention called
to any minor or the streets in prima facie violation of this section normally
shall take the minor to the Town Police Station, or other place designated by
the Chief of Police, where a parent shall immediately be notified to come for
such minor, whereupon they shall be interrogated. This is intended to permit
ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and to
centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial, and uniform enforcement and recording, thus making
available to experienced supervisory personnel, the best of facilities and
access to information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence such
as a birth certificate, a police officer on the street shall, in the first
instance, use his or her best judgment in determining age.
   (F)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience, and may provide, inter alia, that the police officer may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances; for example, a minor
of tender age, near home, whose identity may readily be ascertained or are
known.
   (G)   In any event, such police officer shall, within 24 hours, file a
written report with the Chief of Police, or shall participate to the extent of
the information for which he or she is responsible; said report shall be
treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes.
   (H)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor, or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 2, § 23) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Unlawful assembly; disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.02   Disturbing the peace; obscene gestures; harassing phone calls
   
132.03   Noises prohibited
   
132.04   Sale, possession, or discharge of fireworks
   
132.05   Explosives
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY; DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together to
act in concert to do any unlawful act against the peace, to the terror of
others, to make any movement thereto or any preparation therefor, or otherwise
to assemble together for other unlawful purposes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful gathering,
by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by profane, improper,
or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the place of assembly
or within hearing distance thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 3, § 31) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE; OBSCENE GESTURES; HARASSING PHONE CALLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or
others by violent or improper conduct, by loud or unusual noise, by unseemly,
obscene, insulting, offensive, or abusive language, or by conducting oneself in
a disorderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a telephone to:
      (1)   Make any unsolicited and/or non-consensual obscene, lewd,
lascivious, filthy, or indecent comment, suggestion, or proposal;
      (2)   Make a telephone call without disclosing said person’s identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or harass any person at the called
number;
      (3)   Knowingly permit any telephone under control of said person to be
used for any purpose prohibited in this division (B); or
      (4)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
or continuous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, demonstrate, or otherwise
symbolize any obscene gesture by use of said person’s extremities, toward any
other human being or subject within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 3, § 32) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for preventing or alleviating the
physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
      NOISE. A sound which annoys or disturbs humans, or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. The creating of any unreasonably loud and disturbing
sound of such character, intensity, or duration as to be detrimental to the
life or health of an individual, or which annoys or disturbs a reasonable
person of normal sensitivities.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. The listener can clearly hear the content of the sound
produced by the noise source. Sounds which may be CLEARLY AUDIBLE include, but
are not limited to, musical rhythms, spoken words, vocal sounds, and engine
noises.
   (B)   Prohibited generally.
      (1)   General prohibitions. In addition to the specific prohibitions
outlined below, if any person willfully or maliciously disturbs, either by day
or night, the peace and quiet of any town, neighborhood, family, or person by
any unreasonably loud or disturbing sound of such character, intensity, or
duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of an individual, or which
annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, or safety of an
individual or disturbance of the public peace and welfare is prohibited.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. The following acts are declared to be a
nuisance and in violation of this section:
         (a)   The sounding of horns, whistles, sirens, firearms, explosives,
fireworks, or other such alarm, whether manual or power operated, or any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time shall be a violation of this
chapter.
         (b)   The use of an amplification device, radio, television,
phonograph, drum, musical instrument, or similar device which produces,
reproduces, or amplifies sound shall be deemed annoying or disturbing to a
person, reasonably calculated to disturb the peace and unreasonably offensive
and injurious to the public if the sound is produced between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m., and is plainly audible at a distance of 150 feet or more
from the source of the sound.
         (c)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person shall be in violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provision of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   The emission of sound for alerting persons to the existence of an
emergency;
      (2)   Emergency response vehicles;
      (3)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work;
      (4)   Vehicles of the town while engaged upon necessary public business;
      (5)   Activities conducted on or in municipal facilities which are
approved, sponsored, or sanctioned by the town;
      (6)   Activities conducted on or in school facilities which are approved,
sponsored, or sanctioned by the school; and/or
      (7)   Fireworks displays authorized by the town.
   (D)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   The use of any vehicle in such a condition or manner as to cause
unreasonably loud grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise shall be a
violation.
      (2)   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., no person shall
permit a vehicle to be parked for more than 15 minutes within 250 feet of any
residential property unless each engine in or upon the vehicle is switched off
and is not operating, or unless the sound generated by the engine is entirely
inaudible from the immediate exterior of the vehicle.
      (3)   Operating or causing to be operated any motor vehicle, unless the
exhaust system is:
         (a)   Free from defects which affect sound reduction;
         (b)   Equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device;
         (c)   Not equipped with any cut-out, bypass, or similar device; and
         (d)   Not modified in a manner which will amplify or increase the
noise emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by a muffler of
the type originally installed on the vehicle.
      (4)   Operating or permitting the operation of any of the following
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.:
         (a)   Power equipment used for the performance of construction and/or
repair of home or accessory structures, ground maintenance or auto repair
including, but not limited to, power tools, lawn mowers, or garden equipment;
and/or
         (b)   Commercial power equipment for the performance of construction,
demolition, and/or repair work; excluding town vehicles in the performance of
emergency repair work.
   (E)   Permits. Any person or business may apply for a permit to conduct
activities which might otherwise violate this chapter. The Town Board of
Trustees may impose such limitations as time and geographic area for such
activity.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-21-2016) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 SALE, POSSESSION, OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm, or
corporation to possess, sell, or to discharge, ignite, or in any manner aid,
assist, or abet in the discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size,
type, or description, sky-rockets, pistols, torpedoes, Roman candles, flash
salutes, flash crackers, balloons, buzz bombs, aerial bombs, cannons, or other
fireworks or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, or small
display ground pieces, canes, cap pistols, cannons, or other appliances using
caps containing chlorate or potash mixture within the corporate limits of the
town, except as follows:
      (1)   Fireworks may be sold within the corporate limits of the town
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. daily during the period of time
from June 15 until July 5 of each year.
      (2)   Fireworks may be discharged within the corporate limits of the town
between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. daily during the period of time from July 1
until July 5 of each year, provided that on July 4, the period of time allowed
for the discharge of fireworks shall be extended up to and until 12:00 a.m.
      (3)   Any nonprofit religious, municipal, or service organization may
have and conduct fireworks displays in the town on days other than those set
forth in this division (A).
   (B)   The firing and discharging of such fireworks may be permitted within
any municipal park when the same is supervised by a municipal official;
provided, further, that the Mayor may order or permit public display of
fireworks by properly qualified individuals, under the direction of experts in
the handling of such fireworks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 1, § 1) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or person to store, keep, or have
on his, her, or their premises or in his, her, or their possession, any
explosive materials of any kind or nature without first having complied with
the laws of the state for the purpose of selling, storing, or keeping such
articles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any explosive on
any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or school. Any person storing
explosives for sale to the general public must comply with the laws of the
state concerning the sale and storage of said explosives.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
132.01 and
132.02 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 7)
   (C)   Any such person found violating the provisions of §
132.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be fined $200 plus court cost, or by fine and imprisonment, not to exceed
30 days, at the discretion of the court or jury trying the same.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
132.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not more than $200 plus costs.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
132.04 and
132.05, including the provisions of any code of the town, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed
the limits established in §
32.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8, Art. 2, § 21)
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-21-2016)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
133.01   Assault and battery
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   An ASSAULT is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A BATTERY is any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justifiable or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery, or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law,
while said person is performing assigned duties.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 4, § 41) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Petit larceny
   
134.02   Receiving stolen property
   
134.03   Damaging or destroying property
   
134.04   Unlawful entry; unlawful intrusion; private property
   
134.05   Unlawful posting of advertising matter
   
134.06   Damaging utility poles
   
134.07   Unlawful throwing or shooting of objects
   
134.08   Littering
   
134.09   Shoplifting
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value not to
exceed $50, accompanied by fraud or stealth, or with intent to deprive another
thereof, when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful and any person who commits petit larceny
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 51) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, transport, or bring
into the town any property which said person knows has been stolen.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 52) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobile or
other vehicles, to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use, or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 53) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 UNLAWFUL ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTRUSION; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, without proper
permission, upon the property of another or into an area or structure on such
property (whether such property, area, or structure is public or private),
particularly when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or otherwise, or
when the property, area, or structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is
in the line of duty, with the express or tacit consent of the owner or person
in charge, or otherwise by authority of state law or ordinance.
   (B)   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land
within the town without authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut or other structure without such authority, and every
person who places, erects, or occupies within the bounds of any street, alley,
or avenue of the town, any structure whatever, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to remain on private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation, after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer or by the owner or other person in
lawful possession of the premises or by the agent, servant, or employee of the
owner. The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence on the premises is authorized by the owner
or person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of
this division (C) apply unless the hours of the business operation are posted
upon such premises. It shall also be unlawful to return to said private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day, after having been directed to vacate such premises under the
terms of this division (C).
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 54) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write, or
print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, devise, or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle, or other property of another, without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 55) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write, print, paint up,
or otherwise make any signs or marks, by indentation or otherwise, or by
posting signs or posters, upon any telephone, television, electric, or power
pole, either wood, concrete, steel, or of any other substance, within the
corporate limits of the town. The word POLE shall be construed to mean any pole
supporting telephone, television, electric, or power wires or braces, and any
device used to support or brace such a pole.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who may make
such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 56) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 UNLAWFUL THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or
other object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where said
person is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to
throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle,
structure, electric light, or other property of another, whether public or
private, except in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 57) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08 LITTERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, LITTER is defined to be any garbage,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobile,
paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves,
wood, grass, bedding, or crockery and similar materials commonly referred to as
rubbish or trash.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property within the town, irrespective of the ownership of such property.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place within the town, except in public receptacles,
authorized private receptacles, or in the municipal sanitary landfill.
   (D)   No person shall sweep into, or deposit in, any gutter, street, or
other public place within the town, the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway; persons
owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of his, her, or
their premises free of litter.
   (E)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
town, unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within said town, the wheels or tires of which carry into, or deposit in, any
street, alley, or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or
foreign matter of any kind, in excessive or damaging amounts.
   (F)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the
town.
   (G)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
   (H)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
vacant.
   (I)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so, or
if signs are posted bearing the words “no trespassing,” “no peddlers or
agents,” “no advertisements,” or similar notice, indicating that the occupants
do not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
   (J)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant, or person present upon
such private premises; in cases of inhabited to prevent premises which are not
posted, handbills must be distributed to prevent them from blowing on sidewalks
or other public places.
   (K)   The provisions of division (J) above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk, or public place, or on other private
property.
   (L)   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop, or deposit within the
town any litter, handbill, or any other subject.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 58) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.09 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to remove any
merchandise from a commercial business without paying for said merchandise and
without the consent of the owners of said business.
   (B)   Any police officer or licensed security guard may arrest, without
warrant, any person if there is probable cause for believing said person has
committed larceny of merchandise held for sale in retail or wholesale
establishments, when such arrest is made in a reasonable manner.
   (C)   Any merchant, an agent, or employee, who has reasonable grounds or
probable cause to believe that a person has committed or is committing a
wrongful taking of merchandise or money from a mercantile establishment, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time for
all or any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Conducting an investigation, including reasonable interrogation of
the detained person, as to whether there has been a wrongful taking of such
merchandise or money;
      (2)   Informing the police or other law enforcement officials of the
facts relevant to such detention;
      (3)   Performing a reasonable search of the detained person and said
person’s belongings when it appears that the merchandise or money may otherwise
be lost; and
      (4)   Recovering the merchandise or money believed to have been taken
wrongfully; any such reasonable detention shall not constitute an unlawful
arrest or detention, nor shall it render the merchant, an agent, or employee
criminally or civilly liable to the person so detained.
   (D)   Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any mercantile
establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of such
establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such merchandise with the
intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise within the
meaning of this section, and such concealment or the finding of such
unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of
such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds and probably
cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time, of such person by a merchant, an agent, or employee, and any such
reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful, nor render such
merchant, his or her agent, or employee criminally or civilly liable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 5, § 59) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 7)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Resisting arrest
   
135.02   Impersonating municipal officer or employee
   
135.03   False representation to municipal officials
   
135.04   Escape of prisoners
   
135.05   Assisting prisoners to escape
   
135.06   Removal of barricades
   
135.07   Flight from a police officer
   
135.08   Interference with fire/alarm systems
   
135.09   False fire alarm
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose, or obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer,
the Municipal Judge, or other employees in the discharge of their official
duties;
   (B)   By threats or otherwise, to intimidate, or attempt to intimidate, any
such officers or employees from the discharge of their official duties; or
   (C)   To assault, beat, or abuse any such officers or employees, while such
officers or employees are in the discharge of their official duties.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 71) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 IMPERSONATING MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any material
misrepresentation to any municipal police officer or employee, or exercise, or
attempt to exercise, any of the duties, functions, or powers of any municipal
officer or employee, without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 72) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any municipal officer, employee, or agency in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency, or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 73) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the Municipal Jail or other
place of confinement, working upon the streets or other public places pursuant
to any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of the town,
to escape, or attempt to escape, from any such Municipal Jail, prison, or
custody.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 74) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.05 ASSISTING PRISONERS TO ESCAPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at
liberty, rescue, or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from any
officer or employee of the town, having legal custody of such prisoner, or from
the Municipal Jail or other place of confinement, or to assist such prisoner in
any manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any
weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist in
said escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages, narcotics, or
other controlled dangerous substances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with, or attempt to
communicate with, any prisoner confined in the Municipal Jail without authority
to do so from the Chief of Police or the Officer-in-Charge.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 75) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.06 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade
or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off any
pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 76) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.07 FLIGHT FROM A POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Flight from an officer shall be unlawful and an offense.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of flight from a municipal police
officer, if:
      (1)   Said person is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop said
vehicle as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer;
      (2)   Upon stopping said vehicle at the signal of a law enforcement
officer, abandons said vehicle and leaves, or attempts to leave, the immediate
area without the permission of the law enforcement officer;
      (3)   Said person is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle
after a law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop;
      (4)   After the vehicle has stopped, leaves the immediate area without
the permission of the law enforcement officer; or
      (5)   Said person is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 77) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.08 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE/ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No person shall cut or sever, or cause to be cut or severed, or interfere
with in any manner, any wire of any fire or burglar alarm system in the town or
remove or change the same; or cut, injure, change, alter, or remove any pole,
cross-arm, bracket, or other support upon which said wires rest or in which
said wires are enclosed; or disconnect said wires or any of them from the
gongs, alarm boxes, or instruments connected with said fire alarm system; or
cause, in any manner, the working of the same to become obstructed or
interfered with without being first duly authorized to do so by the Chief of
the Fire Department; nor shall any person deface or in any manner injure any of
the fire or burglar alarm boxes or any instruments or appliances connected with
or belonging to said fire alarm system; or tamper with said fire alarm or
obstruct in any manner whatever, the boxes, keys, or glass upon any of said
boxes; or make or cause to be made, without authority from the Chief of the
Fire Department, keys to any alarm box or boxes; or to use, or cause to be
used, any such key so made; nor shall any person place or fasten over or upon
any fire alarm box a handbill, notice, or sign of any kind, except the signs
placed upon the same at the direction of the Chief of the Fire or Police
Department and pertaining to the firebox; or cause to be hitched any horse or
animal to any pole on which is situated a fire alarm box.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 78) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.09 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner shall deceive
or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers of employees to make a useless run.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 6, § 79) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14, Art. 7)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
      
151.   BUILDING CODES AND CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STRUCTURES
      
153.   MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, AND MODULAR HOUSING
      
154.   SIGNS
      
155.   STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
150.01   Zoning compliance
   
150.02   Zoning map
   
150.03   High voltage electric transmission lines
   
150.04   Remedies cumulative; injunctive relief
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   All businesses and occupations shall conform with the planning and zoning
ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 1, § 1) (Ord. 10-01-01, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.02 ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map for the town is as follows.
(Document, “2023-11-14 WSS Zoning Map”)
§ 150.03 HIGH VOLTAGE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINES.
   (A)   No public utility, person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall
erect, construct, operate, or maintain any high voltage electric transmission
line having a capacity of 69KV or greater within the municipal limits of the
town unless and except upon issuance of a permit as provided by division (B)
below and further except upon public highway and street rights-of-way in such
manner that does not interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic or other
existing uses of such rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 2, § 3)
   (B)   (1)   No public utility, person, firm, corporation, or other entity
shall erect, construct, operate, or maintain any high voltage electric
transmission line having a capacity of 69KV or greater anywhere within the
corporate limits of the town except upon public highway and street rights-of-
way in such manner that does not interfere with the movement of vehicular
traffic or other existing uses of such rights-of-way, without first obtaining a
permit therefor to be issued by a majority vote of the Trustees of the town at
a regular meeting in accordance with this section. The fee for such permit
shall be $500 per structure location. The form of permit and of the application
therefor shall be established by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   In the event of a violation of any provision contained in this
section, the permit issued pursuant to this division (B) may be revoked by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Such vote shall be taken at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees, but not until the person, firm, or entity
holding the permit is given notice in writing at least 15 days prior to the
date of the meeting at which such a vote shall be taken.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 2, § 4)
   (C)   In order to protect the public welfare of the citizens and residents
of the town and to promote and protect the aesthetic interests and attractive
character of the town, as well as to establish reasonable standards to maintain
and encourage business activity and area development within the municipal
limits of the town and protection of property values therein, the Board of
Trustees, after inspection and evaluation of the proposed location of the high
voltage electric transmission line for which a permit is requested, and upon
finding the same to be detrimental to the interests and welfare as set forth
above, may, in its discretion, refuse to issue the permit called for in
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 2, § 5)
   (D)   In order to protect the public welfare of the citizens and residents
of the town and to promote and protect the aesthetic interests and attractive
character of the town, as well as to establish reasonable standards to maintain
and encourage business activity and area development within the municipal
limits of the town and protection of property values therein, it shall be
unlawful for any public utility, person, firm, corporation, or other entity
erect, construct, operate, or maintain any high voltage electric transmission
line having a capacity of 69KV or greater anywhere within the corporate limits
of the town except upon public highway and street rights-of-way in such manner
that does not interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic or other
existing uses of such rights-of-way, without first obtaining a permit therefor
to be issued by a majority vote of the Trustees of the town in accordance with
this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 2, § 6)
   (E)   Any high voltage electric transmission line with a capacity of 69 KV
or more situated and in place within the corporate limits of the town on the
effective date of this chapter shall not be subject to the provisions hereof,
provided, however, that any expansion of an existing high voltage electric
transmission line with a capacity of 69 KV or more situated within the
corporate limits of the town shall be required to comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 3, § 7)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The rights and remedies set forth herein shall be cumulative and shall not
be deemed to supersede or replace any and all other remedies available to the
town, pursuant to any other applicable law or ordinance. The town shall have
the express authority to enjoin violations of this chapter by seeking an order
therefor in the appropriate judicial forum.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 3, § 8)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any public utility, person, firm, corporation, or other entity charged with
violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of up to $200. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 3, § 7)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODES AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code and Regulations
   
151.001   B.O.C.A. Code adopted
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Town Building Official, inspectors, and the like
   
151.004   Wood shingles permitted on dwellings and accessory buildings
   
151.005   Building permits
Supplemental Building Regulations
   
151.020   Residential construction
   
151.021   Smoke detection device required; power of inspector
   
151.022   Canopy and awning requirements; power of inspector
Plumbing Code and Regulations
   
151.035   Definition
   
151.036   B.O.C.A. Plumbing Code; plumbing regulations
   
151.037   Plumbers; registration, permits, fees, and the like
   
151.038   Plumbing contractor; bond required
Gas Code and Regulations
   
151.050   Pamphlet adopted
   
151.051   Gas fitters; license
   
151.052   Gas fitters; bond
   
151.053   Gas fitters; registration
Electrical Code and Regulations
   
151.065   National Electrical Code adopted
   
151.066   License
   
151.067   Apprentices
   
151.068   Bonds
   
151.069   Contractor
   
151.070   Journeyman license
 
   
151.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.001 B.O.C.A. CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits and penalties, that certain building code known as the
B.O.C.A. Building Code recommended by the Building Officials Conference of
America, being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole there-
amended, of which no less than three copies have been and now are filed in the
office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer; and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which
this section shall be controlling in the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of all
buildings and other structures within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the B.O.C.A. Building Code,
it shall be held to mean the town.
   (B)   Wherever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in the B.O.C.A. Building
Code, it shall be held to mean the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 2)
§ 151.003 TOWN BUILDING OFFICIAL, INSPECTORS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Building Official shall have the powers, duties, and
functions prescribed for the Building Official by said B.O.C.A. Building Code
and other codes adopted by this chapter.
      (2)   Provided, that such powers, duties, and functions may be performed
by an authorized representative of the Building Official and under his or her
supervision and control. Such authorized representatives may bear such titles
as “building inspector,” “gas inspector,” “plumber inspector,” and the like, as
may be deemed appropriate to indicate their respective area of concern.
   (B)   When any ordinance provision of any code adopted by this chapter
prescribes any power, duty, or function for any of such authorized
representatives of the building, the official himself or herself shall also
have such power, duty, or function in the absence of the designated
representative of the Building Official.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 3)
§ 151.004 WOOD SHINGLES PERMITTED ON DWELLINGS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Notwithstanding any particular section of the B.O.C.A. Building Code, wood
shingles may be used outside of the fire limits for roofing on dwellings and on
buildings accessory to dwellings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 4)
§ 151.005 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for building permits (including permits for moving
buildings) shall be made to the building officials as provided in the B.O.C.A.
Building Code.
      (2)   Provided, however, that no permit for the construction, erection,
or improvement of any facility for restaurant or food service use shall be
issued until such building plans have been submitted to and approved by the
County Health Department.
   (B)   No permit shall have any force or effect unless it has attached to it,
or written upon it, a receipt of statement of the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office
showing the payment of any and all fees required by this section or any other
ordinance provision.
   (C)   The applicant for a permit to construct, alter, or remove (move) a
building or structure shall pay to the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office a fee as
follows for the building permit.
      (1)   Building or structure permit and inspection fee (for structures up
to 1,500 square feet in area) are as follows.
Building square foot at $0.10 (example: 1,500 square feet) $150
Certificate of occupancy                                   $50
Electric rough-in                                          $30
Final electrical                                           $30
Final mechanical                                           $30
Final plumbing                                             $30
Footing, steel slab/post tension                           $30
Framing                                                    $30
Mechanical overhead/gas/firewall                           $30
OUBCC fee                                                  $4.50
Plan review                                                $10
Plumbing rough-in                                          $30
Plumbing top-out                                           $30
Total:                                                     $484.50
Re-inspection fee                                          $15 each inspection
 
      (2)   Ten cents for each additional square foot of the area of the
structure over 1,500 square feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 6) (Ord. 21-4-5, passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
SUPPLEMENTAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 151.020 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The building and construction standards, specifications, and guidelines of
the Veterans Administration and Federal Housing Administration, as presently
promulgated and as amended hereafter, are hereby adopted by reference for the
purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction,
alterations, and use of residential structures and shall apply to all
construction applicable by said town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 7, § 46)
§ 151.021 SMOKE DETECTION DEVICE REQUIRED; POWER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued for construction of any structure
designed for human occupancy unless the plans for same include a smoke
detection device to be placed at a location therein which will enable said
device to detect smoke at the earliest possible moment.
      (2)   No variance shall be allowed which will defeat this section.
   (B)   (1)   Said inspector shall have the power to prohibit occupancy by
person of any structures constructed pursuant to the building regulation if
said structure is not equipped with a smoke detection device which is in good
working order at the time of inspection.
      (2)   Said occupancy may be prohibited until such time as said device is
demonstrated to perform its designed purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 7, § 47)
§ 151.022 CANOPY AND AWNING REQUIREMENTS; POWER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   A canopy or awning, or similar structure, hereinafter referred to as
“canopy,” may be constructed on any commercial structure which public right-of-
way, provided that said canopy or awning or other canopy complies with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Said canopy may project one-half the width of any existing sidewalk
or not more than six feet, whichever is less, and in no event shall any such
canopy project into any alley or space used as a fire lane.
      (2)   The bottom edge of such canopy shall be no less than seven feet
from the ground or pavement beneath it.
      (3)   No vertical supports shall be used in the construction of said
canopy which extends beneath the same.
      (4)   All such canopies shall be permanent in nature and shall comply
with all fire ordinances now existing or which may be adopted in the future.
   (B)   This section shall govern the construction and maintenance of any
awning, canopy, or device within the town limits.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   A building permit shall be required for the construction
of any such canopy.
         (b)   The Town Inspector shall have the power to review plans for said
canopies and make changes deemed necessary to render the completion of
construction of said canopy.
      (2)   The Town Inspector shall have the power to order any further
modifications which he or she deems necessary for the protection of the health,
welfare, and safety of the public at large.
   (D)   The town shall have the power to remove or have removed any such
canopy, at the owner’s expense, when the same is deemed to be detrimental to
the public interest, after ten days’ notice to said owner.
   (E)   Any such canopy which does not conform to the requirements set forth
herein is hereby declared to be a public nuisance as defined in the code of the
town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 7, § 48) Penalty, see §
151.999
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.035 DEFINITION.
   The word PLUMBING, as used in this subchapter, shall mean water and sanitary
plumbing as defined in the Plumbing License Law of 1955, being 59 O.S. §§ 1001
through 1023.1.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 3, § 25)
§ 151.036 B.O.C.A. PLUMBING CODE; PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law or
ordinance, the plumbing and drainage system of a building or structure shall be
installed in conformity with the B.O.C.A. Plumbing Code, published and
recommended by B.O.C.A. Plumbing Code, current edition.
      (2)   Said code is hereby adopted and shall govern plumbing within the
town.
   (B)   It is the purpose and intent of this Plumbing Code to establish
minimum plumbing standards in terms of performance objectives, implemented by
specific requirements, which will provide reasonable safeguards for sanitation
and protect the public health against the hazards of inadequate, defective, or
unsanitary plumbing installation.
   (C)   The enforcement of B.O.C.A. Plumbing Code in the town shall be the
responsibility of the Plumbing Inspector or Building Official, or other person
as may be designated by the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 3, § 26)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate plumbing, see 59 O.S. §§ 1015, 1016, and 1020
§ 151.037 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS, FEES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The phrase and words JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER, PLUMBER’S APPRENTICE,
PLUMBING CONTRACTOR, and PLUMBING, when used in the ordinances, regulations,
and other official acts and communications of this town, shall have the meaning
respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. § 1003 unless the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade,
occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber) or of
a journeyman plumber, or of an apprentice in this town unless he or she is
registered with the Town Clerk/Treasurer and has a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the State Commissioner of
Health as provided by the Plumbing License Law of 1955, may register as such
with the Town Clerk/Treasurer; and only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as plumber’s apprentices issued by the State
Commissioner of Health as provided by 59 O.S. § 1013, may register as such with
the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   (1)   Upon application to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and the payment of
the required fees to the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office, the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall register such application for registration as a plumbing
contractor shall also furnish a bond as prescribed below.
      (2)   Such town certificates shall not be valid after the termination or
expiration of the state licenses or certificates.
   (E)   (1)   Registration certificates of plumbing contractors and journeyman
plumbers issued as provided herein shall expire on June 30 each year.
      (2)   The town certificates of plumber’s apprentices shall expire when
their state certificates expire (which is five years after date of issue).
   (F)   The annual registration fee shall be as follows: plumbing contractor,
$10; journeyman plumber, $10. The registration for a plumber’s apprentice shall
be $5.
   (G)   A qualified person may register as a plumbing contractor, a journeyman
plumber, or plumber’s apprentice, in the same manner as in the original
instance, upon the same conditions.
   (H)   The Board of Trustees, upon at least ten days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the town registration of any
plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provision of the
ordinances or regulations of the town relating to the installation of plumbing
or for any other cause specified in § 10 of the Plumbing License Law of 1955
(59 O.S. § 1010).
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 3, § 29)
Statutory reference:
   Plumbing License Law of 1955, see 59 O.S. § 1001-1023.1
§ 151.038 PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each person registered as a plumbing contractor shall be bonded as
provided in O.A.C. § 158:30-5-2 in the amount of $5,000, cash escrow, $300.
   (B)   He or she must also have in force at all times a standard public
liability and property damage insurance policy providing public liability
insurance in the amount of $50,000.
   (C)   He or she must have a state plumbing contractor’s license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 3, § 30) Penalty, see §
151.999
GAS CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.050 PAMPHLET ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pamphlet No. 54 published by the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
and its successor the American Insurance Association, entitled Installation of
Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in Buildings, is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Said pamphlet shall be in full force in the town, and shall govern the
installation of gas piping and gas appliances in building in the town. Note:
Pamphlet No. 54 has been adopted by the State Fire Marshal Commission to govern
gas piping and appliances throughout the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 4, § 31) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 GAS FITTERS; LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in
the business of installing gas piping and/or gas appliances without first
obtaining a license for the town. The license may be obtained by the persons
holding plumbing contractor’s license issued by the state.
   (B)   Before receiving a license, the applicant shall pay an annual fee of
$10. The fee shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and the license shall
not be valid unless it has attached to it or written on it a receipt of
statement showing that the fee has been paid.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 4, § 33) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 GAS FITTERS; BOND.
   (A)   (1)   Every person receiving a license to install gas pipe and/or
appliances shall file with the Town Clerk/Treasurer a bond in the amount of
$1,000, executed with a surety company authorized to do business in the state,
and conditioned that the principal will install all gas piping and/or
appliances in accordance with the law and the ordinances and other regulations
of the town, relating to gas piping installations.
      (2)   The principal shall, without further cost to the person for which
the work is done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor
workmanship or inferior or substandard materials.
   (B)   (1)   Said bond must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No license shall be issued to any person until the bond is filed
and approved, and any such license issued shall be valid only while said bond
is in effect.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 5, § 34)
§ 151.053 GAS FITTERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Installers of gas appliances shall be known as gas appliance fitters,
and shall be registered with the Town Superintendent.
   (B)   Provided, that the application for registration be accompanied by the
recommendation of a licensed gas appliance dealer as to the applicant’s moral
character and competency to be trusted with the performance of work involving
the possibility of danger to health and life.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 5, § 35)
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.065 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   All electrical work done within the town shall be performed in accordance
with the standards, procedures, and requirements of the National Electrical
Code, which are hereby adopted and incorporated into this subchapter as though
literally written and restated herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 37) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in the business of
performing electrical services or acting as electricians shall, before engaging
in such work, obtain a license from the Town Clerk/Treasurer upon the payment
of $10 annual license fee.
   (B)   Such license shall be for the year of any part thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 39) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 APPRENTICES.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the employment
of apprentices to perform any of the work herein defined, provided said
apprentices performs said work under the direct supervision of a licensed
electrical contractor or journeyman.
   (B)   No license, examination, or fees shall be required of such
apprentices.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 40)
§ 151.068 BONDS.
   (A)   Any person desiring an electrical license of any kind, as above
provided, shall make and file with the Town Clerk/Treasurer a good and
sufficient bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in
the state and engaging himself or herself thereon in the amount set forth, to-
wit:
      (1)   Class A electrical contractor, the amount of the bond shall be
$5,000;
      (2)   Class B electrical contractor, the amount of the bond shall be
$5,000;
      (3)   Elevator construction, the amount of the bond shall be $1,000;
      (4)   Armature shops, the amount of bond shall be $1,000;
      (5)   Electrical sign contractor, the amount of the bond shall be $5,000;
and
      (6)   Electrical appliance repair, the amount of the bond shall be
$1,000.
   (B)   Said bond shall guarantee the performance on the part of the principal
of all work in strict accord with the requirements of this act and the
Electrical Code of the town as herein defined, the payment of fee or other
charges due the town, the replacing of all faulty or defective materials or
workmanship installed by principal, or by some person for or on the behalf of
said principal, when notified to do so by the Electrical Inspector of the town
and when bond shall be further conditioned that, in the event the principal
does not perform and discharge all duties and obligation resting upon him or
her, he or she shall be liable in first instance and suit may be brought
directly upon said bond jointly and/or severally with said surety company by
any person injured or damaged as a result of such principal’s failure to comply
with the provisions and requirements of the ordinance relating to such work.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 41) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.069 CONTRACTOR.
   A contractor is allowed three apprentices to each journeyman on each job.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 42)
§ 151.070 JOURNEYMAN LICENSE.
   (A)   A person making application for a Class A or B journeyman licenses
shall have at least three years’ actual experience as an apprentice, and a
letter from his or her employer verifying his or her years of experience.
   (B)   A person making application for contractor’s license Class A or B
shall have a certified and notarized letter stating that he or she has at least
five years’ experience from his or her employer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 43)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty of the B.O.C.A. Building Code is hereby amended to read as
follows: “A person who shall violate a provision of the code or fails to comply
therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect,
construct, alter, or repair, or remove, or has erected, constructed, altered,
or repaired, or removed a building or structure in violation thereof, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in the same not to
exceed $35, including costs. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 5)
   (B)   All of the permits and license as authorized by §§
151.065 through
151.070 shall be provided by the Town Clerk/Treasurer upon the payment of the
fees herein set forth, and any person who does any work or performs any
services contrary to the provisions of §§
151.065 through
151.070 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine
of not in excess of the penalty provisions of this chapter, and each day of any
violation shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 6, § 45)
   (C)   There shall be a penalty of three times the required permit fee for
beginning construction prior to obtaining a permit required by §
151.005.
   (D)   Any violation of §
151.050 shall be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town, and shall be
punished as such by $5 if not more than $20 for each such violation for each
day’s continuation of any such violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 4, § 31)
(Ord. 21-4-5, passed 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 152: STRUCTURES
Section
Moving Structures
   
152.01   License required
   
152.02   Bond required
   
152.03   Permit required
   
152.04   Application for permit
   
152.05   Inspection
   
152.06   Action on application
   
152.07   Fees
   
152.08   Height regulation
   
152.09   Area restrictions
   
152.10   Public safety requirements
   
152.11   Conduct of moving
   
152.12   Poles and wires
   
152.13   Trees and fixtures
   
152.14   Obstruction of railway tracks
   
152.15   Exceptions
   
152.16   Restrictions on location
911 Addresses
   
152.30   Duty to procure correct 911 address
   
152.31   Display of number; residential structure
   
152.32   Time to affix numbers
   
152.33   Display of number; commercial and industrial structure
   
152.34   Display of number; apartments and similar
   
152.35   Display of number; trailer park and similar
   
152.36   Payment of costs
 
   
152.99   Penalty
MOVING STRUCTURES
§ 152.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person who shall engage in the business of moving buildings and
structures within the town shall obtain a license therefor from the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, and no such license shall be granted until the party applying
therefor shall have given the bond required by the next succeeding section
hereof. Any person engaging in the occupation of house moving shall pay a
license fee of $25 per annum.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 7) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 BOND REQUIRED.
   The bond to be given by licensed house movers shall be executed to the town
in the penal sum of $2,500, with a surety company authorized to do business in
the state as a private person or corporation sustaining damages under the
conditions thereof. Any such private person or corporation shall be entitled to
sue thereon, in his, her, or its own name. The bond shall be conditioned upon,
among other things, that the ordinances of the town relating to the moving of
buildings or structures and to the use or obstruction of the streets, highways,
or other public ways and protect the town from all liability which may arise or
be occasioned either directly or indirectly from the moving of any building or
structure of license, his or her agents, servants, employees, workers,
contractors, or subcontractors, while engaged in any work in connection with
the moving of any building or structure, including any loss or damages which
may be sustained because of the stoppage of any business or industry located
along the route over which the building or structure shall be moved, caused, or
occasioned by the operation of moving such building or structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 8)
§ 152.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or structure now or hereafter erected within the corporate
limits of the town shall be removed or relocated without a permit for such work
issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, upon written application made therefor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 9)
§ 152.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   No application for a permit to move any building or structure on, over,
along, or across any street or highway shall be granted to any person other
than a licensed house mover, who shall file with the Town Clerk/Treasurer a
written application therefor, definitely stating in such application:
   (A)   Type and kind of building to be moved;
   (B)   The original cost and present value of such building;
   (C)   The extreme dimensions of the length, height, and width of the
building;
   (D)   Its present location and proposed new location by lot, block,
subdivision, and street number;
   (E)   The approximate time such building will be upon the streets, and the
contemplated route that will be taken from present to new location; and
   (F)   The moving of this building does not violate the Fire District
requirements, or any other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 10)
§ 152.05 INSPECTION.
   No building or structure shall be moved to a new location until the building
and the new location shall have been inspected by the Building Inspector and
found to be in such condition that the same may be moved with safety in
accordance with this subchapter, and is fit in structural requirements under
this and other ordinances of the town for the use for which it is contemplated
at the new location.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 11) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   When such application is filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, it shall be
his or her duty to immediately notify the Fire Chief and the Public Director.
Upon receiving such notification, the Town Superintendent, or his or her duly
appointed representative, shall examine the proposed moving route and make such
changes therein as he or she shall deem necessary, or designate an entire new
route, and attach to the application for such permit his or her certificate of
approval of such designated moving route. The Building Inspector shall then
make the inspection required relating to his or her Department; and if it is
found by them that the building or structure can be moved and relocated in
accordance with the requirement of this subchapter, it shall then be the duty
of the Town Clerk/Treasurer to issue a permit for such work; otherwise, such
permit shall be refused.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 12)
§ 152.07 FEES.
   Before any permit to move any building or structure is granted under the
provisions of this subchapter, the applicant for such permit shall pay therefor
to the town an inspection fee based upon the area in square feet of such
building or structure as computed by multiplying together the length by the
width, in lineal feet, of the main body of the building or structure, and
accordance to the following schedule or areas and fees, to-wit:
   (A)   One hundred dollars for a structure up to 1,000 square feet;
   (B)   Fifty dollars for the next one to 500 square feet of the structure;
and
   (C)   Five dollars for each additional 100 square feet, or portion thereof,
of the structure over 1,500 square feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 13) (Ord. 21-4-5, passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see
§
152.99
§ 152.08 HEIGHT REGULATION.
   No building or structure of a height of more than 30 feet shall be moved on,
over, along, or across any street or highway, unless such building or structure
shall be cut to such height before the operation of moving same shall begin.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 14) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 AREA RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to move on, over, or across any street or highway, any
building or structure having an area of 1,000 square feet or more, unless the
Town Board shall, by a majority vote, approve the application for a permit
therefor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 15) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every building which occupies any portion of public property after
sundown shall have sufficient lights continuously burning between sunset and
sunrise for the protection of the public.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum of five red lights placed on each street side
of the building; such red lights shall be attached to the building in such a
fashion as to indicate extreme width, height, and size.
   (C)   There shall be placed, in addition to the red lights on the building,
flares at regular intervals for a distance of 200 feet up the street on each
side of the building.
   (D)   When a street is blockaded at night by a building, the same shall be
protected by flares or red lights at each intersection of the block occupied by
the building, or when, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, flaggers are
necessary to divert or caution traffic, the owner or person moving such
building shall employ, at his, her, or their expense, two flaggers, one at each
street intersection beyond the building; such flaggers shall remain at these
intersections diverting or cautioning traffic from sunset to sunrise; provided,
that red flags shall be used in daytime.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 16) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 CONDUCT OF MOVING.
   (A)   The work of moving any building or structure on, over, along, or
across any street or highway shall begin within five days after the issuance of
a permit therefor and, once begun, shall be prosecuted diligently and
continuously day and night, Sundays and holidays, so as not to allow the
building or structure to come to a standstill until same is relocated on its
new site; provided, that the Public Director, in an emergency, may grant a
temporary suspension of said work for a period of no longer than twelve hours
at any time; and provided further, that no permit shall be granted to leave any
building or structure standing at night in any street intersection.
   (B)   When any building or structure is so permitted to remain at a
standstill in any street or highway at night, the house mover shall notify the
Fire Chief of the location of the same, and shall post at each end and on each
side of such building or structure two or more lights with red glass globes in
a secure and conspicuous position, and shall place barricades at each end of
such building at a distance of 50 feet therefrom with lights thereon as above
required on said building.
   (C)   During any moving operation, the house mover shall keep a watchperson
at all times about said building, whether the same be moving or standing, for
the purpose of keeping any posted lights burning at night and warning the
traffic with flags in the daytime.
   (D)   When necessary to protect pavement or sidewalks, planks of sufficient
size and thickness to prevent injury to such pavement or sidewalks shall be
laid for the wheels of the moving trucks to travel on.
   (E)   The Town Superintendent shall have power to require the use of other
precautionary measures than those specifically mentioned in this subchapter
when necessary or proper to protect life, limb, or property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 17) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 POLES AND WIRES.
   (A)   Whenever for the purpose of facilitating the moving of any building,
it is necessary to raise or cut any electric, telephone, or telegraph wire or
cable, it shall be the duty of the house mover having charge of moving such
building to give the person or corporation owning or operating said wires or
cables at least 12 hours’ notice of the time and place, when and where the
removal of such poles or the raising or cutting of such wires or cables will be
necessary.
   (B)   In case the poles or wires of the fire or police telephone or alarm
systems are to be interfered with, such notice shall be served upon the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   After the service of notice as aforesaid in divisions (A) and (B)
above, it shall be the duty of the person or corporation owning or operating
said poles, wires, or cables, or the duty of the Fire Chief, as the case may
be, to furnish competent workers or line crew to remove such poles or raise or
cut such poles, wires, or cable unless the person or authorities owning or
having control of the same fail or refuse to do so after notice as aforesaid,
and then only competent workers or line crew shall be employed in such work
under the supervision of the Fire Chief and the Public Director, and the same
shall be done in a careful and workmanlike manner and the said poles, wires,
and cables promptly replaced and damages thereto promptly repaired at the
expense of such house mover.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 18) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 TREES AND FIXTURES.
   No tree on any street shall be injured or removed, nor the branches of any
tree be cut or trimmed, in order to facilitate the moving of any building.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 19) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.14 OBSTRUCTION OF RAILWAY TRACKS.
   If it is necessary to move any building upon or across any railway tracks,
the same shall be done in such a manner and at such time as not to interfere
with the operation of cars or trains thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 20) Penalty, see §
152.99
Cross-reference:
   Railroads, see
Chapter 75
§ 152.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A general contractor may be granted a permit for moving a job material
shed or office from one job location to another with his or her own truck or
equipment; providing, the building shall not be larger than eight feet wide and
14 feet long, and eight feet high from the floor to the highest point of the
roof, or when mounted on a truck, shall not be more than 12 feet six inches
from the roadway to the highest point of the roof.
   (B)   And provided further, that the contractor shall furnish a bond
conditioned the same as the bond described in §
152.02. No contractor’s temporary office or material shed larger in any
dimension than specified above shall be moved, except in compliance with all
the requirements of the Building Code applicable to house moving.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 1, § 21) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   (A)   Existing structures or buildings located within the town limits may be
removed from the town limits upon meeting all requirements for such removal.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 2, § 22)
   (B)   No existing structure or building of any nature whatsoever, located
within the town limits, shall be moved from its present location to any other
location within the town limits, without the expressed approval of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 2, § 23)
   (C)   No existing structure or building of any nature whatsoever, located
outside the town limits, shall be moved to any location within the town limits
without the expressed approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 4, § 24)
Penalty, see §
152.99
911 ADDRESSES
§ 152.30 DUTY TO PROCURE CORRECT 911 ADDRESS.
   Whenever any house, building, or structure shall be erected or located
within the town, it shall be the duty of the property owners to procure the
correct 911 address number or numbers for the property and to affix these
numbers to the building in accordance with this subchapter. The owner shall
place or cause to be placed upon each house or building controlled by him or
her the number or numbers assigned under the 911 system within 30 days of
notification of the assigned address. The cost of posting the address shall be
the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 49) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 DISPLAY OF NUMBER; RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
   Each primary structure shall display the number of the address assigned to
that address. The numbers shall be in Arabic numerals at least three inches in
height, and of a durable and clearly visible material. The numbers shall be
placed on, above, or at the side of the main entrance so the number is clearly
visible from the public right-of-way. Whenever a residence entrance is greater
than 50 feet from a public right-of-way, or not clearly visible from the public
right-of-way, a number shall also be placed along a driveway or property
entrance. Address numbers are to be a contrasting color to the background on
which they are mounted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 50) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 TIME TO AFFIX NUMBERS.
   The owner or person in charge of any house, building, mobile home, or other
structure to which a number has been assigned shall affix the number as
outlined in this subchapter within 30 days after the receipt of notification of
such number.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 51) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 DISPLAY OF NUMBER; COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE.
   The 911 address numbers for commercial and industrial structures shall post
numbers of at least six inches in height. The number shall be placed above or
on the main entrance to the structure when possible. If such number is not
clearly visible from the public right-of-way, the number shall be placed along
a driveway or on a sign visible from the same. Address numbers are to be a
contrasting color to the background on which they are mounted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 52) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 DISPLAY OF NUMBER; APARTMENTS AND SIMILAR.
   The 911 address number assigned to a single building number shall be
displayed on each assigned structure. Numbers and/or letters from individual
apartments or units within these complexes shall be displayed on, above, or to
the side of the main doorway of each apartment or unit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 53) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.35 DISPLAY OF NUMBER; TRAILER PARK AND SIMILAR.
   The 911 address number assigned to a trailer within an organized trailer
park shall be one address number for the trailer park with each trailer
assigned a lot or space number. The lot or space number must be posted and
permanently affixed to the lot identifying the lot or space number. The main
address to the trailer park must be posted at the entrance of the park. Address
numbers are to be a contrasting color to the background on which they are
mounted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 54) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   All costs to individuals or households in complying with this section of the
subchapter shall be borne by that individual or household.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 55)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who engages in any business, trade, or vocation for
which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is required by this
chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate or certificate of
registration as required, or who fails to do anything required by this chapter
or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who otherwise violates any
provisions of this chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter, or who
violates any lawful regulation or order made by and of the officers provided
for in this chapter, is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $260.
      (2)   Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 9, § 57)
   (B)   Any violation or noncompliance with §§
152.30 through
152.36 will result in the imposing of a $50 fine.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 8, § 56)
   (C)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere
with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for
a mandamus, and injunction, or other appropriate action against such person.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Art. 9, § 58)
CHAPTER 153: MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, AND MODULAR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Grandfather clause
   
153.03   Remedies cumulative; injunctive relief
Single-Family Unit Permits
   
153.15   Permit required; renewal; revocation
   
153.16   Issuance of permit; refusal
   
153.17   Connection of utilities
   
153.18   Tie-downs and skirting requirements
   
153.19   Compliance with Codes; display of seal
   
153.20   Minimum lot size and siting requirements
   
153.21   Repair or replacement requirements
Mobile Home Parks, Courts, and Resorts
   
153.35   Permit required
   
153.36   Consent of adjacent property owners
   
153.37   Site plan, minimum lot size, and minimum road width
   
153.38   Utility hook-ups
RV Parks
   
153.50   Length of stay restricted
   
153.51   General requirements
   
153.52   Definitions
   
153.53   Screening requirements
   
153.54   Utilities
   
153.55   Permit required
   
153.56   Site plan, minimum lot size, and minimum road width
   
153.57   Noise, pets, and nuisances
   
153.58   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
153.01 through
153.38, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, OR MODULAR HOUSES. A manufactured or pre-fabricated
single-family dwelling not less than 60 feet in length nor less than 12 feet in
width, designed for transportation on streets and highways on its own wheels or
designed to be transported by any truck or rail-type transportation to any
location, ready to be occupied as a residential facility, and containing a
flush toilet and a bath. No such MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, OR MODULAR HOUSE may be
occupied or utilized for commercial purposes except as otherwise permitted for
single-family residences under applicable codes of the town. Any manufactured
or pre-fabricated dwelling having dimensions of not more than or equal to 60
feet in length and/or 12 feet in width but otherwise meeting the requirements
and definition of MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, OR MODULAR HOUSES herein shall not
constitute a MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, OR MODULAR HOUSES for purposes of this
chapter and shall not be occupied as a residential dwelling facility within the
town limits.
   MOBILE HOME PARK, MOBILE HOME COURT, or MOBILE HOME RESORT. Any tract of
land situated within the corporate limits of the town and intended for
subdivision into lots or tracts for use by two or more manufactured, mobile, or
modular houses, or one manufactured, mobile, or modular house and another
permanent residential structure, provided, however, that any tract having no
more than two manufactured, mobile, or modular houses, or one manufactured,
mobile, or modular house and another permanent residential structure, situated
thereon wherein the occupants of one such house are related to the occupants of
the other such house within the third degree of consanguinity shall not be a
MOBILE HOME PARK, MOBILE HOME COURT, or MOBILE HOME RESORT as defined herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 1, § 1)
§ 153.02 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   Any manufactured, mobile, or modular house and any mobile home park,
court, or resort situated within the corporate limits of the town on the
effective date of this chapter shall not be subject to the provisions hereof,
provided, however, that all manufactured, mobile, or modular houses shall be
required to comply with §
153.18 and provided further, that any expansion of an existing mobile home
park, court, or resort situated within the corporate limits of the town shall
be required to comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any manufactured, mobile, or modular house situated within the
corporate limits of the town, on the effective date of this chapter which
thereafter, from any cause, sustains damage requiring repairs to 50% or more of
its value and/or 50% or more of its outer walls and roof, is destroyed, or is
otherwise rendered uninhabitable, shall comply with all provisions of this
chapter in the repair or replacement of such manufactured, mobile, or modular
house and shall no longer be grandfathered.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 5, § 14) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The rights and remedies set forth herein shall be cumulative and shall not
be deemed to supersede or replace any and all other remedies available to the
town, pursuant to any other applicable law or ordinance. The town shall have
the express authority to enjoin violations of this chapter by seeking an order
therefor in the appropriate judicial forum.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 5, § 15)
SINGLE-FAMILY UNIT PERMITS
§ 153.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; RENEWAL; REVOCATION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall place, establish, or fix upon a
foundation any manufactured, mobile, or modular structure intended for use as a
residential dwelling anywhere within the corporate limits of the town without
first obtaining a permit therefor to be issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer or
Deputy Town Clerk/Treasurer in accordance with this subchapter. The fee for
such permit shall be a one-time fee of $25 per unit. The form of permit and of
the application therefor shall be established by the Town Clerk/Treasurer. In
the event of a violation of any provision contained in this subchapter, the
permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by a majority vote of the
Board of Trustees. Such vote shall be taken at a regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees, but not until the person, firm, or entity holding the permit is
given notice in writing at least 15 days prior to the date of the meeting at
which such a vote shall be taken.
   (B)   In the event of the expiration or revocation of such permit, any
manufactured, mobile, or modular house placed within the corporate limits of
the town shall be removed within 60 days of such expiration or revocation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REFUSAL.
   In order to protect the public welfare and health of the residents of the
town, the Board of Trustees, after inspection of the physical condition of the
mobile home for which a permit is requested and upon finding the same to be
deteriorated or in noticeable disrepair, may, in its discretion, refuse to
issue or renew the permit called for in §
153.15(A).
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 3)
§ 153.17 CONNECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any public utility to connect natural or
propane gas, electrical utilities, sewer or water lines, or maintain service
therefrom, to any manufactured, mobile, or modular house within the corporate
limits of the town, unless and except the permit required by §
153.15(A) has been issued or renewed to the owner of the manufactured, mobile,
or modular house.
   (B)   All connections to public utilities shall be performed by a state
licensed and bonded contractor who has previously delivered a copy of such
license to the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer; provided that this shall not
apply to employees of a public utility effecting a connection to such public
utility.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 TIE-DOWNS AND SKIRTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All manufactured, mobile, or modular structures shall meet the minimum
requirements and specifications indicated by the Federal Housing Authority
(FHA) for tie-downs and supporting piers.
   (B)   Except for those placed upon and supported by permanent foundations
constructed from concrete block, stone, or other similar materials, all
manufactured, mobile, or modular houses within the corporate limits of the town
shall be skirted around the base thereof with color matching metal skirting of
not less than 26 gauge skirting or other similar material approved by the Board
of Trustees which is consistent with the structure of the house itself and in
sufficient amounts to enclose the entire underside of the manufactured, mobile,
or modular house.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 5) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES; DISPLAY OF SEAL.
   A manufactured, mobile, or modular house must display the MHMA or TCA
(Mobile Home Manufacturers Association or Trailer Coach Association) seal of
approval on plumbing, electrical, wiring, and insulation codes attached to the
manufactured, mobile, or modular house, or exhibit other evidence of compliance
with the Building, Plumbing, and Electrical Codes of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND SITING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No manufactured, mobile, or modular house may be placed or
maintained within the corporate limits of the town upon a lot or land parcel
containing less than one and one-half acre in area.
      (2)   This requirement shall not apply to manufactured, mobile, or
modular houses existing within such limits on said effective date.
   (B)   No manufactured, mobile, or modular house may be placed or maintained
within 150 feet of any property ownership or lot line within the corporate
limits of the town, except those displayed for sale by a licensed dealer at a
permitted location or those located in a mobile home park, court, or resort as
hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 7) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of a manufactured, mobile, or modular house located in a
residential zone for which a permit has been obtained and maintained in
accordance with this subchapter shall be permitted to perform repair,
maintenance, and replacement as needed. Replacement of a portion of the
manufactured, mobile, or modular house, in the event of a fire, natural
disaster, or other catastrophic damage, shall be subject to the issuance of a
permit as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   In the event of a fire, natural disaster, or other catastrophic
damage, the owner of a manufactured, mobile, or modular house located in a
residential zone for which a permit has been obtained and maintained in
accordance with this subchapter shall be permitted to repair or replace such
manufactured, mobile, or modular house of equal or better quality and condition
to that damaged or destroyed. The replacement of a manufactured, mobile, or
modular house which has been irreparably damaged or destroyed shall be
permitted upon the owner first having obtained a permit as provided in §
153.15(A).
   (C)   The owner of an existing manufactured, mobile, or modular house
located in a residential zone for which a permit has been obtained and
maintained in accordance with this subchapter shall be permitted to substitute
a different manufactured, mobile, or modular house with one of equal or better
quality and condition, upon the owner first having obtained a permit as
provided in §
153.15(A).
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 2, § 8) Penalty, see §
153.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS, COURTS, AND RESORTS
§ 153.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall develop any property within the
corporate limits of the town for use as a mobile home park, court, or resort,
without first obtaining a permit therefor to be issued by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer or Deputy Town Clerk/Treasurer in accordance with this subchapter.
The fee for such permit shall be $100 per year per mobile home park, court, or
resort. The form of permit and of the application therefor shall be established
by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The permit required by division (A) above shall be renewed annually by
the payment of the fee provided for in division (A) above. Fees paid to renew
an existing permit shall be paid no later than June 30 of each year.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of any provision contained in this
subchapter, the permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Such vote shall be taken at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees, but not until the person, firm, or entity
holding the permit is given notice in writing at least 15 days prior to the
date of the meeting at which such a vote shall be taken.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 3, § 9) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 CONSENT OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The permit required by §
153.16(A) shall not issue unless and except the person desiring the permit
presents to the Town Clerk/Treasurer a written application therefor bearing the
signatures of no fewer than 75% of the persons owning real property within a
radius of 300 feet of the boundary of the property being developed for use as a
mobile home court, mobile home park, or mobile home resort, as evidence of
their lack of objection thereto. The application shall be signed at the bottom
by the applicant before a notary public, and such signature shall constitute
the applicant’s affirmation that the application bears the number of signatures
required pursuant to this section as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
permit and that such signatures are authentic.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed or deemed to impose upon the town a
duty to investigate the signatures contained in the required application or to
verify that the number of signatures contained in the application is sufficient
for issuance of the permit required by §
153.16(A). The application, signed by the applicant in the manner set forth in
division (A) above, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the sufficiency
thereof and shall create a rebuttable presumption that the requirements for the
issuance of a permit have been satisfied.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 3, § 10)
§ 153.37 SITE PLAN, MINIMUM LOT SIZE, AND MINIMUM ROAD WIDTH.
   (A)   The permit required by §
153.16(A) shall not issue unless and except the person desiring the permit
presents, along with the application required by §
153.21, a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the configuration of the lots in
the mobile home park and the location and width of the streets, roads,
entrances, and exits in the mobile home park and reflecting the same to be
consistent with the minimum requirements set forth in this section.
   (B)   A mobile home park, court, or resort shall contain lots not less than
50 feet deep and not less than 120 feet wide, for a minimum area of 6,000
square feet.
   (C)   All streets and roads within a mobile home park, court, or resort
shall be no less than 30 feet in width, including shoulders.
   (D)   All of the lots in the mobile home park, court, or resort shall
include enough area for the establishment of an off-street parking area,
entirely within the boundaries of the lot, sufficient in size to allow two
automobiles to be parked thereon.
   (E)   Only manufactured, mobile, or modular houses shall be permitted on
each lot within a mobile home park, court, or resort.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 3, § 11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 UTILITY HOOK-UPS.
   Each lot within a mobile home park, court, or resort must have separately
metered utilities.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Art. 3, § 12) Penalty, see §
153.99
RV PARKS
§ 153.50 LENGTH OF STAY RESTRICTED.
   (A)   A RV PARK is a tract of land that provides temporary overnight
accommodations for camping, recreation, and vacation use occupied by
recreational vehicles, cabins/cottages, or tents. Examples include, but are not
limited to, a travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, motor home, fifth-
wheel trailer, van, or tent.
   (B)   (1)   All sites/pads are limited to a 14-day continuous occupancy.
Only after removing the recreational vehicle from the park three days may it
return.
      (2)   No RV site/pad, cabin, or cottage may become monthly or permanently
occupied as a residency. Exception, only construction employees doing
construction work in the area are allowed to stay for a maximum of 60 days.
Only after removing the recreational vehicle from the park three days may it
return.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.51 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A RV park shall be adapted to individual site/pad conditions, and the plat
should use terrain, existing trees, shrubs, and rock formations with a minimum
of disturbance of the land when possible. Conditions of soil, groundwater
level, drainage, and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the
health or safety of the occupants.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABIN/COTTAGE. A small structure utilized for temporary camping or
vacationing. A maximum of 14 feet by 30 feet.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicular unit that is mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, or travel use.
   FIFTH-WHEEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels that is designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use of
such size and weight as to not require a special highway movement permit and is
designed to be towed by a motorized vehicle that contains a towing mechanism
that is mounted above and forward of the rear axle of the tow vehicle.
   MOTOR HOME. A motorized vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that:
         (a)   Is primarily designed as a vehicle that also provides temporary
living quarters for noncommercial, recreational, or camping use;
         (b)   Is built to the standards of the National Fire Protection
Association for recreational vehicles;
         (c)   Has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another
vehicle;
         (d)   Is regulated by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration as a vehicle or vehicle equipment;
         (e)   Does not require a special highway use permit for operation on
the highways; and
         (f)   An individual can easily transport and set up on a daily basis.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES include motor homes, travel trailers, fifth-
wheel travel trailers, folding camping trailers, and truck campers.
   RV SITE/PAD. A single pad with the minimum dimensions of 14 feet wide by 30
feet in length and having a surface constructed of concrete, asphalt, chip-n-
seal, or SB2 rock.
   TENT. A shelter consisting of sheets of fabric or other material draped
over, attached to a frame of poles, or attached to a supporting rope. While
SMALLER TENTS may be freestanding or attached to the ground, LARGE TENTS are
usually anchored using guy ropes tied to stakes or tent pegs.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels that is designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use of
such size and weight as to not require a special highway movement permit when
towed by a motorized vehicle.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit that is constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use and consists of a
roof, floor, and sides and is designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the
back of a pickup truck.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 153.53 SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Landscaping, screening, and buffering where no natural vegetative
buffer exists shall be developed not less than eight feet in height containing
trees, shrubs, or any combination thereof to screen boundaries visible from
local roads.
   (B)   Fencing shall be required around all property lines except the
property line facing the main street or highway. Fencing material may consist
of wood or similar opaque materials, masonry, or stone walls. Metal fencing is
not permitted for use.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.54 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility services, water supply, and sewage disposal systems shall be
connected to public utility systems when located within 300 feet of the
property.
   (B)   Water supply shall comply with state and county health regulations and
Uniform Building Code regulations, as they apply.
   (C)   Sewage disposal systems shall comply with state and county health
regulations, as they apply.
      (1)   Each camper vehicle shall be provided with an approved dump station
in the ratio of one for every 100 camper vehicle spaces or fractional part
thereof.
      (2)   If tent camping is allowed, a restroom facility shall be
constructed in compliance with the Uniform Building Code, as it applies, and
shall be constructed with a concrete slab with masonry/stone type walls and
provided at one or more locations in the camping park, and shall be located
within 500 feet of any sites designated for tent camping.
      (3)   Restrooms shall consist of a structure serviced with hot water that
can accommodate no less than one male restroom with a working water closet,
sink, and shower, and one female restroom with a working water closet, sink,
and shower, meeting ADA (American Disability Act) requirements.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.55 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall develop any property within the
corporate limits of the town for use as an RV park without first obtaining a
permit therefor to be issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer or Deputy Town Clerk/
Treasurer in accordance with this subchapter. The fee for such permit shall be
$100 per year per RV park. The form of permit and of the application therefor
shall be established by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The permit required by division (A) above shall be renewed annually by
the payment of the fee provided for in division (A) above. Fees paid to renew
an existing permit shall be paid no later than June 30 of each year.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of any provision contained in this
subchapter, the permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Such vote shall be taken at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees, but not until the person, firm, or entity
holding the permit is given notice in writing at least 15 days prior to the
date of the meeting at which such a vote shall be taken.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.56 SITE PLAN, MINIMUM LOT SIZE, AND MINIMUM ROAD WIDTH.
   (A)   The permit required by §
153.55 shall not issue unless and except the person desiring the permit
presents, along with the application required by §
153.55, a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the configuration of the lots in
the RV parks and the location and width of the streets, roads, entrances, and
exits in the RV park and reflecting the same to be consistent with the minimum
requirements set forth in this section.
   (B)   A RV park shall contain sites/pads not less than 30 feet long and not
less than 14 feet wide.
   (C)   All streets and roads within a RV park, court, or resort shall be no
less than 30 feet in width, including shoulders. All streets, roads, and RV
sites/pads shall have a surface constructed of concrete, pavement, chip-n-seal,
or SB2 type material. Exception: designated tent sites/pads may be located in
grassy areas.
   (D)   All of the sites/pads in the RV park shall include enough area for the
establishment of an off-street parking area, entirely within the boundaries of
the site/pad, sufficient in size to allow two automobiles to be parked thereon.
   (E)   Only recreational vehicles, tents, cabins, and automobiles shall be
permitted on each site/pad within the RV park.
   (F)   All camper vehicle sites/pads shall be located at least 25 feet from
any park boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway.
   (G)   All tent camping is limited to four tents per site/pad, and located at
least 50 feet from any public highway or road.
   (H)   Each RV park shall have no less than one dumpster for the occupants of
the park. Dumpster(s) will be located in a non-conspicuous place as to not
create a public nuisance or adversely affect the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and three sides shall be enclosed with a decorative type of
privacy fence to detain trash and debris at that location.
   (I)   (1)   Cabins/cottages shall have water and electric services connected
to the town’s utility services. Sewer shall be hooked to the town’s sewer.
      (2)   If town sewer is unavailable, the sewer system shall meet the
approved DEQ (Department of Environmental Quality) guidelines.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.57 NOISE, PETS, AND NUISANCES.
   (A)    Quiet time is from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Pets shall not run freely through the park. All pets shall be tethered
or on a leash at all times.
   (C)   The RV park shall be kept clean of trash, grass, and weeds, and shall
be kept groomed to a maximum height of six inches, and shall comply with
Chapter 92 of this code.
   (D)   No storage of recreational vehicles is to be stored inside the park or
lot.
   (E)   No dumping grey or black water on the ground.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Building Official, Code Enforcement, Chief of Police,
Mayor, or their designee, shall be granted permission to look at the records
(including lengths of stay) during regular business hours.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of any provision contained in this
subchapter, and/or three public nuisance violations within one year, the permit
issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by a majority vote of the Board
of Trustees, but not until the person, firm, or entity holding the permit is
given notice in writing at least 15 days prior to the date of the meeting at
which such a vote shall be taken.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
153.50 through
153.58 or of any ordinance, code, or standard adopted by reference to §§
153.50 through
153.58, or maintains or permits to continue any public nuisance as defined by
§§
153.50 through
153.58 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in §
32.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 21-11-01, passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 154: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Interpretation and application; amendments
   
154.02   Administrative body; duties
   
154.03   Notice
   
154.04   Commercial sign content
Regulations
   
154.15   Definitions
   
154.16   Sign identification
   
154.17   Maintenance of premises
   
154.18   Removal of prohibited, unsafe, or unsecure signs and structures
   
154.19   Nonconforming signs
   
154.20   Exemptions
   
154.21   Permit requirements
   
154.22   Removal or relocation of certain conforming signs
   
154.23   Signs not to constitute traffic hazard
   
154.24   Signs on public and private property
   
154.25   Sign illumination
   
154.26   Spot lights and beacons prohibited; electronic lights
   
154.27   Portable swinger or temporary attraction sign boards; banners
   
154.28   Certain signs prohibited or restricted
   
154.29   Roof signs
   
154.30   Use of a vehicle as sign
   
154.31   Freestanding signs
   
154.32   Projecting signs
   
154.33   Wall signs
   
154.34   Monument signs
   
154.35   Area identification/subdivision signs
   
154.36   Sign variances; administrative appeals; time periods
   
154.37   Decisions final
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “sign ordinance.”
   (B)   (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   Wherever the requirements of any other ordinance conflicts with the
terms of this sign ordinance, the most restrictive standard shall apply.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may determine that this chapter requires
amendment from time to time. No vested rights shall be created by the
provisions of this chapter, or by application for, or issuance of, a sign
permit, except as required by law.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.02 ADMINISTRATIVE BODY; DUTIES.
   The town’s administrative body is authorized and directed to:
   (A)   Identify rules that it reasonably determines are proper and convenient
to efficient implementation of the terms of this chapter; and
   (B)   Maintain, for public review at Town Hall, various diagrams and photo
samples illustrating the sign types referenced in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.03 NOTICE.
   Notice that may be required of the town under this chapter shall be deemed
complete upon:
   (A)   Actual delivery to the person, whether by hand or other reasonable
mode; or
   (B)   Five business days after mailing, certified mail, via U.S. Postal
Service, to the address shown on the sign permit application, or to the
landowner’s address as shown on the records of the Tax Assessor of the county.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.04 COMMERCIAL SIGN CONTENT.
   Any sign that is authorized to carry commercial messages under this chapter
may instead substitute lawful noncommercial messages on the sign.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
REGULATIONS
§ 154.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who has submitted an application for a sign permit.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION/SUBDIVISION SIGN. A sign only identifying, without other
message, a common area containing a group of structures, or a single structure
on a minimum site of five acres, typically consisting of a residential
subdivision, apartment complex, industrial park, mobile home park, or shopping
center, located at the entrance or entrances of the area.
   AWNING. A frame mounted on a permanent structure with a covering of material
that serves as a shelter, as over a storefront, window, door, or deck. For the
purposes of this chapter, AWNINGS with signage shall be treated as wall or
projecting signs (depending on placement).
   BANNER. Any sign printed or displayed upon cloth or other flexible material,
without frames.
   BEACON. A structure-mounted stationary or revolving light which flashes or
projects illumination, single color or multicolored, in any manner which is
intended to attract or divert attention; except, however, this term is not
intended to include any kind of lighting device which is required or necessary
under the safety regulations described by the Federal Aviation Agency or
similar agencies.
   BILLBOARD. A surface ten feet by 24 feet or larger on which advertisements
or notices are displayed.
   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign that identifies the general contractor
and the on-site project name only, without other message.
   BULLETIN BOARD/CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. Any sign having changeable copy and
used only to give public notice of varying events which are held on the
premises.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign of a noncommercial nature which, without other
message, directs the reader to the location of public or educational
institutions, or to the location of historical structures or areas open to the
public, or to the location of public parks or buildings.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA/SIGN FACE AREA. The net geometric area of the sign
plane; provided, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA shall not include the structural supports
and only one face of a double-faced sign shall be considered in determining the
DISPLAY SURFACE AREA.
   DISTRICT or ZONING DISTRICT. The zoning districts of the town as shown by
the zoning map. (A: Agricultural; R: Residential (1-2); C: Commercial (1-3); I:
Industrial (1-2)).
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD/LED SIGN. Any sign that uses changing lights, LEDs,
or pixels to form a sign message or image.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and
shall also include the painting of wall signs.
   FLAG. A piece of flexible material usually attached at one edge to a staff
or cord.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign in use with a light source that is
intermittent, or flashing, or otherwise varying in projected color or
intensity.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is attached to or a part of a completely
self-supporting structure affixed to the ground.
   HIGHWAY. Any state or federal numbered highway.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs,
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign design or use.
   ILLUMINATION, DIRECT. Illumination which is so arranged that the light is
directed into the eyes of the viewer from the light source.
   ILLUMINATION, INDIRECT. Illumination so arranged that the light is reflected
from the sign to the eyes of the viewer.
   INFLATABLE SIGN. Any sign that is either expanded or supported by gases
contained within the sign, or sign parts, at a pressure greater than
atmospheric pressure.
   JOINT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which, without other message, provides
only common or collective identification for a group of persons or businesses
operating on the same or adjacent lot(s) (e.g., shopping center, business
complex, or the like).
   LOGO. A graphic representation or symbol of a business or company name,
trademark, or abbreviation.
   LOT. A parcel of land, whether described by metes and bounds or as a platted
LOT.
   MALL. Any concentration of retail stores and/or services establishments
which share customer parking areas and are located within an enclosure having
public walkways whereby a customer in one store or establishment may walk to
another store or establishment without leaving the enclosure.
   MANSARD ROOF. Any roof that has an angle greater than 45 degrees and which
derives part of its support from the building wall and is attached to (but not
necessarily a part of) a low slope roof and which extends along the full length
of the front wall. For purposes of this chapter, a LOW SLOPE ROOF shall mean
any roof with a pitch less than three inches rise per 12 inches horizontal.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign that is permanently affixed to the ground
and does not utilize a pole or support structure.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign existing at the effective date of the provisions
of this chapter which could not be built under those terms.
   PARKING INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A wall sign or a freestanding sign indicating,
without other message, only the location of a motor vehicle parking lot, or
designating the persons authorized to park in said lot.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
organization, or other legal entity of any kind.
   PLATFORM SIGN. A single or double-face portable sign attached to a
supporting base placed on the ground surface.
   PORTABLE SWINGER ‘A’ FRAME ATTRACTION SIGN.
      (1)   A single or double-face sign which is temporary in nature.
      (2)   The sign may (without limitation) be constructed in a frame, or
mounted on wheels, or held by a person to attract attention of the viewer, are
easily moveable, and are not permanently attached at any location.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed at an angle or perpendicular to the wall
of any building.
   PROPERTY LINE. The boundary of a property, and shall be deemed to abut the
right-of-way on any street frontage.
   PUBLIC NOTICE SIGNS. A sign required or erected by a governmental agency for
the purpose of informing the general public of a public hearing or information;
or a sign (not exceeding 300 square inches) that identifies a not-for-profit
civic organization.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign which, without other message, advises the
public of the availability of, and contact information for, the sale or lease
of the property where the sign is located.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed, or maintained on the roof
structure or parapet wall of any building.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any combination of two or more retail stores and/or service
establishments, which share any customer parking area, regardless of whether
the businesses occupy separate structures or are under separate ownership.
   SIGN (SIGNAGE).
      (1)   Any device visible from the exterior of a structure where its
essential purpose and design is to convey to the general public either
commercial or noncommercial messages by means of graphical presentation of
alphabetic or pictorial symbols or representations.
      (2)   (a)   For the purpose of determining number of signs, a SIGN shall
be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing
elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit.
         (b)   Where matter is displayed in a random manner, without organized
relationship to elements, or where there is a reasonable doubt as to the
relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a single SIGN.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. A triangular area at the corner between any two
intersecting streets, where:
      (1)   The apex of the triangle is the point of intersection of the two
rights-of-way;
      (2)   The legs of the triangle extend 25 feet from the apex along each of
the two rights-of-way; and
      (3)   The hypotenuse joins the ends of the triangle legs.
   SIGN OWNER. Any one or combination of the following:
      (1)   The owner of the real property upon which the sign is located;
      (2)   The owner of the sign structure; and/or
      (3)   Any lessor or other person that, for consideration, is benefitted
by the sign.
   SIGN SETBACK. The measurement required from the property line to the sign
structure.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign typically displayed for a short period of time, not
permanently attached to any structure, motor vehicle, or the ground; and
including (without limitation) a display, informational sign, banner, or other
advertising device, and decorative displays for holidays or public
demonstrations.
   TOWN. The Town of West Siloam Springs, its Board of Trustees, Administrative
Board, and their designees.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign affixed parallel to the wall or printed on the wall of
any building in such a manner as to read parallel to the wall on which it is
mounted, and shall include any sign display surface that is affixed flat
against the sloping surface of a mansard roof, and any sign that is affixed to
the face of a building marquee, building awning, or a building canopy.
   WIND-ASSISTED SIGN. Any flag, pennant, or sign consisting of a balloon,
spinner, or blimp.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.16 SIGN IDENTIFICATION.
   Every sign or other advertising structure hereafter registered shall show in
a conspicuous place thereon which is visible to the inspector and is readable
by the inspector from the ground, the permit number. Alternatively, the sign
identification may be displayed with the business license.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   All freestanding signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be
maintained by the owner/lessee thereof in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish, and weeds.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.18 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED, UNSAFE, OR UNSECURE SIGNS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   If the town’s administrative body shall find that any sign or other
advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, is a menace to
the public, is abandoned, or maintained in a dilapidated condition, or has been
constructed or erected, or is being maintained in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, the town shall give written notice to the permittee or
property owner or sign owner. If the permittee or property owner or sign owner
fails to timely appeal, or to remove or alter the sign or advertising structure
so as to cure the deficiency within a reasonable time specified in such notice,
such sign or other advertising structure may be removed or altered to comply by
the town; any expense incidental to such removal or alteration shall be charged
to the owner of the property upon which the sign is located and shall
constitute a lien upon the property.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees or administrative body may cause any sign
or other advertising structure which is an immediate peril to persons or
property to be removed summarily without notice. Such signs or other
advertising structures are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   When any sign is removed summarily without notice, the owner or
lessee thereof shall have the right to a post-seizure administrative hearing by
the Board of Trustees to determine whether there was probable cause to remove
the sign.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.19 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs shall be removed or shall be altered to conform to
the provisions of this chapter when the sign is changed or modified either in
shape, size, or legend, or when the name of the business changes.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in a way which would
increase its nonconformity.
   (C)   Should any nonconforming sign be damaged by any means to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost at time of damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions shall not be construed as relieving the sign owner from the
responsibility of complying with all other provisions of this chapter. The
exemptions shall apply to the requirements for sign permits only, and no sign
permit shall be required for the erection of the following signs:
   (A)   Professional nameplates erected flat on walls of buildings and not
exceeding four square feet of display surface area;
   (B)   One building construction sign on each construction site in any zoning
district; provided, that maximum display surface area shall be eight square
feet or less in the R zoning district; 32 square feet or less in other zoning
districts;
   (C)   On a lot in any district, there may be erected one unanimated real
estate sign; provided, when a lot is listed simultaneously with two real estate
firms, one such sign per firm shall be permitted. Provided further, such signs
shall be limited to wall signs, freestanding signs, or platform signs; and
freestanding signs or platform signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet
from the street right-of-way boundary. Real estate signs shall not be
illuminated. The maximum display surface area for a real estate sign shall be
as follows:
      (1)   Ag District: 32 square feet;
      (2)   Residential Districts: Eight square feet; and
      (3)   Commercial and Industrial Districts: 32 square feet.
   (D)   Public notice signs;
   (E)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection,
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
materials;
   (F)   Temporary signs are limited to one and only allowed on-site in a
residential district for a period not to exceed 45 days in a 12-month period;
   (G)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency, or public safety signs as may be
approved by the Board of Trustees;
   (H)   Posting of bills on signs, repainting of signs, or the changing of
letters or numbers on signs designed for changeable lettering or numbering
which were legally erected and maintained for such purposes;
   (I)   Election campaign signs are permitted to be placed on private property
in any district, subject to the following conditions: the sign shall be removed
within 72 hours following the final election to which it applies; the owner of
the property on which said sign is placed shall be responsible for its removal;
   (J)   Time and temperature displays without advertising matter, providing
all clearances prescribed herein for signs similarly located are maintained;
   (K)   Banners shall be exempted when used in conjunction with public and
private events as follows.
      (1)   Election campaign banners when said banners are not placed more
than ten days prior to, and are removed within 72 hours following, the election
to which the banner applies.
      (2)   Public event banners shall be removed within 72 hours following the
event to which the banner applies.
      (3)   Banners placed on private property for advertising a special sales
event must be removed 72 hours after the sales event.
   (L)   All signs located within a building that are not intended to be
visible to the public outside said building;
   (M)   Signs painted on, or permanently affixed to, glass surfaces of windows
or doors, including signs indicating if the business is opened or closed;
   (N)   Signs shall be limited to wall and freestanding signs with a maximum
of four square feet of display area. One freestanding or wall sign shall be
permitted at each entrance or exit on a lot or parcel to identify such entrance
or exit and to encourage the use of motor vehicle seatbelts, subject to the
following restriction: No such sign shall be erected which would create a
traffic hazard;
   (O)   Collection boxes for organizations containing no commercial
advertising and located on private properly in any C or I Zoning District;
   (P)   In any district, one temporary subdivision identification sign
indirectly illuminated, not to exceed 32 square feet in area per surface, may
be erected at any principal entrance to a subdivision; provided, that in no
event shall such sign remain for more than six months within 50 feet of an
occupied dwelling in an R District;
   (Q)   In any district, signs advertising the price of motor vehicle fuel
sold from a fuel pump located on the premises shall be permitted, subject to
the following conditions.
      (1)   Only one fuel price informational sign shall be permitted per fuel
pump.
      (2)   Fuel price informational signs shall be limited in size to an area
of four square feet.
      (3)   Each fuel price informational sign shall be affixed directly and
firmly to a fuel pump and shall be stationary.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall be construed as to prohibit the advertisement
of fuel prices on any other sign meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Only one two-faced, or two one-faced, self-service/full service
signs, not exceeding four square feet in display surface area, are permitted at
each pump island.
   (R)   One garage sale sign per parcel or lot in an agricultural or
residential district may be placed on private property for a period not to
exceed ten consecutive days; and not more than three times per calendar year.
Garage sale signs are not permitted in a street right-of-way, on utility poles,
or on stop and traffic signs. Garage sale signs must be removed at the close of
the sale;
   (S)   One lost animal sign may be placed on a lot or parcel, for a period
not exceeding ten consecutive working days in any residential district;
   (T)   Signs warning of the location of utilities and of their hazards so
that persons will not be injured thereby, or so that fire, police, and other
public emergency services may be conducted expeditiously and safely, or so that
essential public functions served by such utilities will not be impaired;
   (U)   Up to three different flags may be posted per lot as follows:
      (1)   Standard flag sizes (two by three feet, three by five feet, four by
six feet, five by eight feet, and six by ten feet);
      (2)   The total area of all flags may not exceed 80 square feet; and no
one dimension of any flag shall exceed eight feet; and
      (3)   Flags which contain a commercial message are not exempt.
   (V)   Signs identifying facilities accessible to people with disabilities
which comply with federal law regarding character proportion, color contrast,
raised or indented characters or symbols, and mounting location and height.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to erect, repair by
more than 50% of value, alter, or relocate within the town any sign or other
advertising structure as defined in this chapter, except as exempted, without
first obtaining a sign permit from the town and payment of the fee as required.
All illuminated signs shall be subject to the provisions of the Electrical
Code, in addition to all applicable permit fees. Incomplete applications shall
not be accepted. The applicant shall pay all applicable fees or fines, and
shall provide all required documentation, prior to the Board of Trustees’
approval of any sign permit.
   (B)   Application for initial sign permit. Application for initial sign
permits shall be submitted to the Town Clerk/Treasurer on a provided
application form and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures;
      (4)   Two drawings of the plans indicating the specifications, type of
sign, and method of construction and attachment to the building or in the
ground;
      (5)   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting sign
structure;
      (6)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land to
which or on which the sign structure is to be erected;
      (7)   Any electrical permit required and issued for said sign.
Application requesting electrical permit for proposed sign must accompany sign
application;
      (8)   Such other information as the town shall require must show full
compliance with town ordinances; and
      (9)   Sign display surface area, including lettering area, if applicable.
   (C)   Sign permit fees. Every applicant, upon sign permit approval, shall
pay to the town the following permit fee for each sign or other advertising
structure regulated by this chapter: Permit fee of $10 plus $1 per square feet
of the sign face. No sign permit fee shall exceed $500. All permit fees will be
doubled if a sign is installed prior to obtaining sign permit approval.
   (D)   Issuance of sign permit. It shall be the duty of the town, upon the
filing of an application for a sign permit, to examine such plans,
specifications, inspections, and other data and the premises upon which it is
proposed to erect the sign or other advertising structure. If it shall appear
that the proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this
chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the town, the town shall then
issue the sign permit. If the work authorized under a sign permit has not been
completed within six months after date of issuance, the said permit shall
become null and void. The applicant shall notify the town when a sign is
complete and ready for final inspection, which shall be no more than 60 days
after the permit has been approved for installation.
   (E)   Sign and permit installation.
      (1)   The sign permit decal must be affixed on the permitted sign or sign
structure in a manner and location that is convenient to view from ground
level. Alternatively, the sign identification may be displayed with the
business license.
      (2)   Signs not installed according to the conditions of the permit and
this chapter shall be brought into compliance within five days following actual
notice delivered to any sign owner. Failure to do so could result in fines and/
or penalties.
   (F)   Sign re-facing. The permit fee for re-facing of existing permitted
signs shall be $10 per sign. Sign re-facing is limited to replacing or changing
the words, numbers, logos, or other artwork upon the sign surface, without
electrical, structural, size, or location modifications. The above fee shall be
doubled if work is commenced prior to permit approval. This section is not
intended to require a permit for revising or replacing messages upon the
portions of approved changeable copy signs designed for such purpose.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF CERTAIN CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   In the event a person ceases business operation for a period of time
in excess of 60 days, the sign owners shall immediately remove any sign
identifying or advertising said business or any product sold thereby; provided,
however, this requirement shall not apply where, under the provisions of this
chapter, an existing conforming sign may be altered to advertise a new
business.
   (B)   Upon failure of the sign owners to comply with this section, the town
shall issue a written notice to the sign owners, which notice shall state that
such sign shall be removed within 30 days. Except pending a timely appeal, the
town is hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign upon expiration of the
30-day period, and all expense incidental to such removal shall be charged to
the owner of the property upon which the sign is located and shall constitute a
lien upon the property. For the purpose of this section, the word REMOVE shall
mean:
      (1)   The sign face, along with posts, columns, or supports of
freestanding signs, shall be taken down and removed from the property;
      (2)   The sign face and supporting structures of projecting, roof, or
wall signs shall be taken down and removed from the property; and
      (3)   The sign face of painted wall signs shall be removed by painting
over the wall sign in such a manner as to completely cover up and hide from
sight the sign in question; provided, however, that for any of the above signs,
a covering may be adhered to the sign face until a new sign is permitted by the
town, but not exceeding a period of 12 months.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   (A)   Visual impediments. No sign, banner, or other advertising structure,
as regulated by this chapter, shall be erected or continued to be displayed at
the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape, or color,
it may interfere with, obstruct the sight lines, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal, or device; or which makes use of the words,
“stop,” “look,” “drive-in,” “danger,” or any other word, phrase, symbol, or
character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   (B)   Sight distance triangle. No sign shall be erected or maintained within
any sight distance triangle within the town.
   (C)   Driveway and alley intersection. An unobstructed line of sight shall
also be maintained where a driveway or alley intersects the property line,
within a triangular area formed by the street property line and the property
line along the alley or driveway, and a line connecting them at points ten feet
from the intersection of the street property line and the property line along
the alley or driveway.
   (D)   Signs above right-of-way.
      (1)   Except by approval of the Board of Trustees, or its designee, no
sign shall be displayed above a street right-of-way.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may consult with the Police Chief, Fire
Chief, Department of Transportation, Director of Public Works, and Electric
Department, or their designees, prior to approval of any request pursuant to
this section.
      (3)   All requests for display of signs above the right-of-way shall be
in writing and shall disclose the name and address of the applicant and any
organization or entity represented, the requested date(s) and location(s) of
the display(s), the size and type of construction of the proposed sign(s), and
the proposed wording thereon. The Town Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her designee,
shall provide an application form for this purpose.
      (4)   Any such request denied by the town may be appealed to the Board of
Trustees by notifying the Town Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her designee, in
writing, at least five working days prior to the next regularly scheduled Board
of Trustees meeting.
      (5)   Signs shall be installed so as to leave a minimum distance of 18
feet between the lowest part of the sign and the roadway surface.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 SIGNS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Signs on public property.
      (1)   No signs other than authorized or mandatory public notice signs or
signs placed by agencies of government shall be erected on any public property;
provided, directional signs may be erected upon city street name signposts, or
upon traffic signposts under the following conditions.
         (a)   The sign directs the reader to the location of a public facility
attended principally by out-of-town patrons, or to a facility relating to
scenic or historic sites.
         (b)   The signs are fabricated, erected, and maintained by the town.
         (c)   The signs do not constitute a traffic hazard.
      (2)   Persons shall be allowed to place temporary signs of a
noncommercial nature on public property for the purpose of directing the
general public to the location of an event or activity. The placement of such
temporary signs shall be subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   The maximum display surface area of each sign shall not exceed
32 square feet.
         (b)   Each such sign shall identify the event-sponsoring organization
by name.
         (c)   No such temporary sign shall be placed on public property for
more than 14 consecutive days.
         (d)   The organization applies for, and is issued, a sign permit (the
organization shall not be charged a permit fee).
         (e)   No such organization shall install a temporary sign on public
property pursuant to the provisions of this division (A) more than four times
within a 12-month period.
   (B)   Signs on private property; home occupation signs. No signs shall be
placed on private property without the consent of the land owner. No sign shall
identify a home occupation on-site unless the home is located in an R
(Residential) zoning district.
   (C)   Signs on trees or rocks. Signs shall not be placed or maintained upon
trees, or painted or drawn upon rocks or natural features; provided, however,
that this section shall not be interpreted to prohibit signs fabricated of
milled stone material.
   (D)   Signs on utility poles. No signs shall be placed on or fastened to any
utility pole, except by the pole owner for utility identification or similar
purposes.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 SIGN ILLUMINATION.
   Direct illumination shall be restricted to lightbulbs rated according to the
sign manufacturer’s specifications. Signs shall not be erected or illuminated
in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise interfere with an official traffic
sign, signal, or device, or to obstruct or otherwise interfere with the
driver’s view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.26 SPOT LIGHTS AND BEACONS PROHIBITED; ELECTRONIC LIGHTS.
   (A)   Spot lights and beacons. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate or erect any attraction device or sign which contains a beacon of any
type and/or contains a spot light providing direct illumination to the public.
   (B)   Electronic message boards. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD shall include any
sign or structure which provides for text or background color changes, or the
illusion of action, motion, or movement, through illumination via sequencing
bulbs, light emitting diodes, or other electronic means.
      (1)   An electronic message display board that is readily visible to
drivers of vehicles on any public way must have characters of sufficient size
to be easily discerned and must not constitute a safety hazard by distraction
of drivers.
      (2)   Blinking, flashing, or pulsing illumination, or display of
continuously moving pictures via electronic message boards shall not be
allowed; provided, however, that the following shall not be deemed a violation
of this section:
         (a)   Displays of vertically or horizontally scrolling text;
         (b)   Variation of background luminescent intensity or color at
intervals of greater than once per second;
         (c)   Nighttime displays shall be dimmed to one-half or less of the
daytime display wattage;
         (d)   Electronic message boards shall not be permitted within 200 feet
of any residence district; and
         (e)   No more than one electronic message board with two sides shall
be permitted per lot of record.
   (C)   Warning and official signs, lights, and beacons. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit any flashing or alternating signs,
beacons, warning signals, or similar devices required by the Federal Aviation
Administration, Department of Transportation, or other governmental entity.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 PORTABLE SWINGER OR TEMPORARY ATTRACTION SIGN BOARDS; BANNERS.
   (A)   Portable signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to display or
erect any portable swinger, ‘A’ frame, sandwich, or temporary attraction sign
board in the town. Permitted signs shall be limited to no more than six square
feet, weighted in order to prevent errant movement, and not positioned to
interfere with pedestrian accessibility.
   (B)   Banners. Persons may display no more than three banners, for up to 45
consecutive days. The banner:
      (1)   Must not exclusively identify any person or business entity;
      (2)   Must not obstruct line of sight distances;
      (3)   Must not exceed 100 square feet;
      (4)   Must be displayed on-site only; and
      (5)   Must be installed securely according to manufacturer’s
specifications.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.28 CERTAIN SIGNS PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Revolving, rotating, or moving signs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to erect or to continue using any sign the exterior of which revolves,
rotates, or otherwise moves, in whole or in part.
   (B)   Temporary freestanding signs. Except where permit-exempted, it shall
be unlawful for any person to display or erect any temporary freestanding sign
in the town.
   (C)   Wind-assisted signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to display or
erect any wind-assisted signs in agricultural, commercial, and industrial
districts. This provision shall have no application to permitted flags.
   (D)   Joint identification signs. Joint identification signs shall be
limited to business name(s), and shall carry no other advertising matter.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.29 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   Roof signs shall not be permitted except by resolution of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may grant a variance for a roof sign only where
the applicant demonstrates unusual practical difficulties in utilizing a wall
sign. The sign variance must be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.30 USE OF A VEHICLE AS SIGN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use a stationary vehicle or trailer as a sign
or sign structure. Logos on operational vehicles are excluded from this
prohibition.
   (B)   Signs may not be placed:
      (1)   On inoperable vehicles, or vehicles that are not being operated
during hours normal to the business; or
      (2)   To project vertically on the horizontal roof surface of a non-
operating vehicle.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.31 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect any freestanding sign of total height
greater than 40 feet above the level of the street which the sign faces.
Freestanding sign setback must be measured from the property line to the
closest edge of the sign or sign structure. Freestanding signs must be located
a minimum of ten feet from all fire hydrants and power lines. Freestanding
bulletin boards shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from street right-of-
way. Any bulletin board having a display surface area in excess of 16 square
feet shall be set back from street right-of-way an additional one foot for each
two square feet of display surface area in excess of 16 square feet.
   (B)   Freestanding signs permitted in the town shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   A districts.
         (a)   Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted on a lot or at a
business operating on two or more adjoining lots.
         (b)   Display surface area shall not exceed 16 square feet.
         (c)   Sign may be illuminated by indirect illumination only.
         (d)   Sign shall be set back 25 feet from existing street right-of-way
and 25 feet from any R district, and a minimum of 25 feet from adjoining
property.
      (2)   R districts. Except for permit-exempted temporary signs, no
freestanding signs shall be constructed or maintained in any R (residential)
zoning district. Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted on a lot or
parcel zoned R subject to the following restrictions.
         (a)   The maximum display surface area shall not exceed eight square
feet on local streets, or 15 feet on collector or arterial streets, as defined
in the town.
         (b)   The sign shall be set back a minimum 15 feet from all property
lines.
         (c)   The height of the sign shall not be greater than eight feet
above the level of the street upon which the sign faces.
         (d)   The sign may be illuminated by indirect illumination only.
         (e)   No other signs shall be permitted on the property unless, due to
unusual practical difficulties, the Board of Trustees grants a variance.
      (3)   C districts.
         (a)   Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted on a lot in the C
zoning districts, including at a shopping center or at a mall; provided, only
one freestanding sign shall be permitted where any business is operating on two
or more adjoining lots. Businesses located at an intersection of a major street
may have one freestanding sign facing each intersecting street.
         (b)   Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted on any vacant lot,
or on any group of adjoining vacant lots of one ownership, provided, that both
the site and sign shall meet the requirements of division (B)(3)(e) below.
         (c)   Freestanding signs shall be subject to the following:
            1.   On highways or streets of three lanes or less, including turn
lanes: The sign shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from all property
lines. The display surface area shall not exceed 32 square feet; provided, the
display surface area may be increased two square feet for each one foot the
sign is set back from street right-of-way beyond ten feet; provided further,
the maximum display surface area for a sign which is set back from the street
right-of-way 40 feet or more shall be 84 square feet.
            2.   On highways or streets of more than three lanes, including
turn lanes: The sign shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from all property
lines. The display surface area shall not exceed 150 square feet; provided, the
display surface area may be increased two square feet for each one foot the
sign is set back from the street right-of-way beyond 15 feet, provided further,
the maximum display surface area for a sign which is set back from the street
right-of-way 30 feet or more shall be 300 square feet.
         (d)   The display surface area of joint identification signs may be
increased by two square feet per 500 square feet of gross leasable building
area, with a maximum display surface area of 300 square feet. The property
owner is responsible to ensure that joint identification signs are designed in
a manner to provide identification space for tenants located within the
development.
         (e)   Freestanding signs shall be displayed only on vacant lots only
where abutting federal or state-owned highways with more than three lanes, and
only as provided in division (B)(3)(b) above. Construction of the sign shall be
steel or a material of similar strength and durability. The sign shall be
restricted to a maximum of 400 square feet, and shall be set back a minimum of
40 feet from the highway right-of-way.
      (4)   I districts. All sign standards shall conform to the C district
standards in division (B)(3) above, except that:
         (a)   Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted per lot; provided,
however, that only one freestanding sign shall be permitted where any person
(or business) is operating on two or more adjoining lots.
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall be subject to the following:
            1.   Display surface area shall not exceed 64 square feet;
provided, the display surface area may be increased two square feet for each
one foot the sign is set back from street right-of-way beyond 15 feet; provided
further, the maximum display surface area for a sign which is set back from
street right-of-way 40 feet or more shall be 150 square feet;
            2.   Shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from all property
lines; and
            3.   Signs must be set back 25 feet from the boundary of any R
district.
      (5)   Freestanding signs, supporting structure. The supporting structure
of freestanding signs shall be set firmly in or below the ground surface, and
shall not be attached to any building or other structure, whether portable or
stationary.
 
         # of    Joint          Collector, # of   Setback Setback  Setback
Zoning   Signs   I.D.    Local  Arterial   Travel from    from     from     Height
District Allowed Allowed Street Street     Lanes  ROW     Other    Abutting
                                                          District PL
                         16     16 square                                   40
A        1       No      square feet       N/A    25 feet 25 feet  25 feet  feet
                         feet
C*, C-1, 1       Yes     N/A    150 square More   15 feet 15 feet  15 feet  40
C-2, C-3                        feet       than 3                           feet
C*, C-1,                 30     32 square  3 or                             40
C-2, C-3 1       Yes     square feet       less   10 feet 10 feet  10 feet  feet
                         feet
I-1, I-2 1       No      N/A    64 square  N/A    15 feet 25 feet  15 feet  40
                                feet                                        feet
R-1, R-                  8      15 square
2, and   1       No      square feet       N/A    15 feet 15 feet  15 feet  8 feet
R-3                      feet
Note to table:
* If zone is surrounded by R District on three or more sides, the sign can be no
larger than 32 square feet, and shall be lit indirectly.
 
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.32 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect any projecting sign that projects from
the wall of a building upon which it is erected a distance of more than one-
half of the width of the sidewalk (in those instances where there is a sidewalk
next to the building) or within two feet of street right-of-way (in those
instances where there is no sidewalk next to the building); provided, no
projecting sign shall project more than six feet from the wall of the building
upon which it is erected.
   (B)   Projecting signs shall be located on the vertical surface of a
building and shall not be higher than the eave or rafter line, whichever is
higher. Projecting signs shall clear grade level below the sign by a minimum of
ten feet.
   (C)   The display surface area of a projecting sign shall not exceed 16
square feet. Only one projecting sign per business or institution shall be
permitted; and a projecting sign shall not be permitted on property which has a
freestanding sign.
   (D)   Projecting signs are prohibited in A and R zoning districts.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Wall signs shall not project more than 18 inches from the surface upon
which they are mounted; provided, the upper edge of a wall sign mounted on a
mansard roof may project more than 18 inches so long as the sign is
perpendicular to the ground. Wall signs may not extend more than 18 inches
above the peak of the structure. Where a building houses more than one
business, wall signs shall be limited in number to one wall sign per business
on each wall with a limit of four wall signs per business or institution per
building; where a building houses only one business or institution, a maximum
of four wall signs may be placed on one wall, but no more than four wall signs
may be placed on the building. The display surface area of all wall signs on
any one wall shall not exceed 150 square feet or 20% of the area of the wall
and the length of all wall signs on the wall facing said street or highway
shall not exceed 75% of the entire length of the wall.
   (B)   Wall signs shall not be permitted in day care homes, residential
accessory uses, and home occupations.
   (C)   Awnings with commercial displays and commercial signs on fencing shall
be deemed projecting and wall signs, respectively.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.34 MONUMENT SIGNS.
   Monument signs shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   Illuminated monument signs shall use indirect lighting only.
   (B)   The maximum monument sign size for a lot or parcel fronting on any
local street shall not exceed 12 square feet.
   (C)   The maximum monument sign size for a lot or parcel fronting on any
collector street and arterial street shall be based upon the length of lot or
parcel frontage as follows.
 
Frontage Length     Maximum Signage Area
0 to 99 feet        18 square feet
100 to 199 feet     24 square feet
200 feet or greater 32 square feet
 
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.35 AREA IDENTIFICATION/SUBDIVISION SIGNS.
   (A)   The size, height, and location of the fence, wall, or other structure
which will contain the area identification sign must be approved by the town’s
Board of Trustees, who will review the structure upon the criterion of traffic
safety sight lines.
   (B)   Only one area identification/subdivision sign per street frontage of
the area being identified shall be erected.
   (C)   Area identification/subdivision signs shall not exceed 32 square feet
in display surface area.
   (D)   The highest point of any area identification/subdivision sign shall
extend no more than eight feet above ground level.
   (E)   No advertising shall be allowed on the area identification sign. Only
the area shall be identified, and no single or multiple names of businesses
shall be placed on the sign.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.36 SIGN VARIANCES; ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; TIME PERIODS.
   (A)   Variances.
      (1)   Establishment. The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to issue
variances from the terms of this chapter as herein provided. The Board shall
establish meeting dates, adopt rules for the conduct of business, establish a
quorum and procedures, and provide a public record of its findings and
decisions. Each session of the Board shall be a public meeting. One notice of
the meeting and agenda may be published in a newspaper of general circulation,
and shall be posted on the property, more than seven but less than 15 days
prior to the meeting.
      (2)   Duties. The Board of Trustees shall have the following powers and
duties:
         (a)   1.   To hear requests for variances from the provisions of this
chapter in instances where strict enforcement of this chapter would cause
extraordinary practical difficulties due to circumstances unique to the
individual sign under consideration, and grant such variance only when it is
demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
            2.   Hearings shall be scheduled no later than the regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees next following the applicant’s full compliance with
application and notice requirements, and shall be delayed only upon request of
the applicant, or upon request of the Board of Trustees for causes beyond the
town’s reasonable control.
            3.   The Board’s decision shall be announced, after its
deliberation, at the close of the variance hearing.
         (b)   The Board may impose reasonable conditions in the granting of a
variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent property. A violation of
such conditions shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
         (c)   The concurring vote of a majority of the full Board shall be
necessary to approve any variance.
         (d)   Any variance granted by the Board shall automatically be revoked
if the applicant does not comply with the terms of the variance within 30 days
following delivery of notice of noncompliance; and the applicant shall
thereafter comply with the literal provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Notice.
         (a)   Burden. No application shall be complete until the applicant has
filed with the town its documents showing its full compliance, at its own
expense, with the notice requirements for a variance.
         (b)   Content; presentation. In appearance and content, notices shall
comply with rules reasonably prescribed by the Board of Trustees for clarity
and for public convenience.
   (B)   Administrative appeals; time limits.
      (1)   Upon written request received from any applicant, the
administrative body, or its designee, shall, within 20 business days
thereafter, provide a written decision applying the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   A hearing before the Board of Trustees shall be scheduled no later
than the regular meeting following consideration by the Zoning Board; and shall
be delayed only upon request of the applicant, or upon request of the Board of
Trustees for causes beyond the town’s reasonable control. The Board’s decision
shall be announced, after its deliberation, at the close of the hearing.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.37 DECISIONS FINAL.
   Decisions of the Board of Trustees shall be deemed final, and shall be
subject to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county as may be provided by
state law.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be a misdemeanor, which may be punishable by a
fine, and each day of the violation shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as is reasonable or necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 16-03-01, passed 3-8-2016)
CHAPTER 155: STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Minimum width; rights-of-way
   
155.03   Minimum width; streets and roadways
   
155.04   Trees and shrubbery
   
155.05   Rights-of-way and easements
   
155.06   Obstructions
   
155.07   Drainage of polluting substance
   
155.08   Dumping in public areas
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any easement for road purposes held by the town, and
shall include the full width of said easement, notwithstanding the fact that
only a portion of the easement may be occupied as a road.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the municipal right-of-way constituting the actual
surface thereof upon which vehicles travel.
   STREET. The portion of the municipal right-of-way constituting the actual
surface thereof upon which vehicles travel.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 2, § 11)
§ 155.02 MINIMUM WIDTH; RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   All rights-of-way dedicated as public municipal rights-of-way for acceptance
by the town as public rights-of-way to be maintained by the town from February
6, 1995, forward shall be no less than 32 feet in width.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 2, § 12) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 MINIMUM WIDTH; STREETS AND ROADWAYS.
   All town streets, subdivision streets, and other roadways located within the
corporate limits of the town, built or constructed from February 6, 1995,
forward shall be no less than 18 feet in width.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 2, § 13) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the public right-or-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley, in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks, or alleys.
      (2)   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
herein required of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
within any public right-of-way; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
   (C)   Any owner, lessee, or occupant of any property abutting on any street
shall not allow any human-made or natural view obstruction at any corner
intersection, particularly within the sight triangle created by definition in
the town’s adopted zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 1) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or otherwise prevent access to, any publicly used street, alley, easement, or
other municipally owned property, whether platted or unplatted; provided, that
the town may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys, easements, and
municipally owned properties from time to time, in the public interest.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may permit certain streets, alleys,
easements, and municipal properties which are dedicated, but not required for
traffic or other public access or use, to be fenced or otherwise made
inaccessible to the public (as in the case of land being farmed or grazed as a
part of a larger field or pasture); provided, that said Town Board or any of
its officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress, and easement
for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading,
mowing, or any other activity which is in the public interest.
   (C)   Persons, companies, corporations, or individuals, who have fenced in,
or are farming or grazing dedicated, but unopened, streets, alleys, easements,
or municipally owned properties, as permitted above, shall:
      (1)   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks, or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      (2)   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      (3)   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning
the property, upon notice by the town; and
      (4)   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so
by a municipal officer or employee.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct, erect, build, or cause to be constructed, erected, or built, any
fence, of whatever height or material, within any dedicated road right-of-way
in the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements, or public rights-of-way of the town, in any manner
so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon, or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of said easement or right-
of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit,
throw, or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas, or sidewalks any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or
other refuse of any kind.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalks that are
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be
open or leave open any cellar door, manhole, or grating of any kind in or upon
any street, sidewalk, or alley of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public grounds, or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom, except where authorized to do so by the Town
Board of Trustees; evacuations so authorized shall be properly guarded and
protected to prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life
or limb.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley, or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway, or other obstruction or substance whatever, that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or gutters.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence, business, or industry to allow
drainage of a polluting substance (as defined by 82 O.S. § 1084.2) into any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public right-of-way of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 DUMPING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation not domiciled
within the county to enter upon any street, alley, sidewalk, public right-of-
way, or other municipally owned property for the purpose of disposing of any
solid waste, refuse, or household trash.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 5) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in this chapter, after receiving ten days’ notice
from the Chief of Police to do so, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any violation of the chapter shall be deemed an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the limits
established in §
32.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 3, § 21)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions of §
155.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of up to $200, plus court costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 17, Art. 1, § 5)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
17-   4-11-  Extending the corporate limits of the town to include Walnut Street, Hickory
04-01 2017   Street, and Elm Street.
19-   11-18- Ratifying nine annexation ordinances not previously published.
11-18 2019
20-   3-9-   Correcting scrivener’s errors in two prior annexations’ legal descriptions and
03-09 2020   ratifying said corrections.
21-4- 4-19-  Annexing nine parcels of territory.
1     2021
21-4- 4-19-  Annexing 3.79 acres of Section 26, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East.
2     2021
21-4- 4-19-  Annexing a portion of Section 27, Twp. 20 North, and Range 25 East of the
3     2021   Indian Base and Meridian.
21-   12-20- Annexing a portion of Section 27, Twp. 20 North, and Range 25 East, subject to
12-01 2021   the right-of-way of Hwy. 33 on the south side.
2022- 3-21-  Annexing a portion of Section 28, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East.
03-02 2022
2022- 3-21-  Annexing a portion of Section 36, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East, subject to the
03-03 2022   right-of-way of the county road and any easement of record.
2022- 3-21-  Annexing a portion of Section 28, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East.
03-04 2022
2022- 9-19-  Annexing a part of Hwy. 412 and a part of Cedar Drive.
09-01 2022
2023- 3-20-  Annexing a tract of land located at Section 30, Twp. 20 North, Range 30 East.
03-01 2023
2023- 11-20- Annexing a part of Section 27, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East.
11-01 2023
2024- 7-15-  Annexing a portion of Section 26, Twp. 20 North, Range 25 East.
07-01 2024
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                    Code Section
4 O.S. 46(B)                 91.01
11 O.S.                      31.01;
                             32.38
11 O.S. 1-102                92.11
11 O.S. 4-102                10.19
11 O.S. 8-101 et seq.        31.02
11 O.S. 8-103                30.04
11 O.S. 8-104                30.04
11 O.S. 8-105                31.46
11 O.S. 10-117(5)            31.15
11 O.S. 12-101 et seq.       31.02
11 O.S. 12-106               30.06
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.       Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-108               10.01
11 O.S. 14-109               10.01
11 O.S. 16-101 et seq.       31.01;
                             31.02
11 O.S. 16-301 et seq.       31.01
11 O.S. 16-302               31.01
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.       Ch. 10
11 O.S. 22-111               92.11
11 O.S. 27-101 et seq.       32.03
21 O.S.                      130.05
21 O.S. 21-22                Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-268               Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-644               Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-644               Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-1272              Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-1289.7            Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-1364              Ch. 32, App. A
21 O.S. 21-1760              Ch. 32, App. A
22 O.S. 1115 et seq.         32.28
22 O.S. 1115.1               32.28
37 O.S. 2-101                115.001
37 O.S. 37-8                 Ch. 32, App. A
37 O.S. 532                  115.001
37 O.S. 506(35)              115.021
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.       115.001
37A O.S. 1-101(21)           115.021
37A O.S. 1-101 through 6-129 115.001;
                             115.020
37A O.S. 7-101 through 7-107 115.001;
                             115.020
40 O.S. 551 et seq.          Ch. 31, App. A
                             70.01;
47 O.S.                      72.01;
                             113.15
47 O.S. 1-101 through 1-186  70.01
47 O.S. 7-116 et seq.        73.01
47 O.S. 7-204                73.01
47 O.S. 7-503                73.01
47 O.S. 8-104                113.16
47 O.S. 11-1113              73.04;
                             73.99
47 O.S. 1102                 73.04
47 O.S. 1134                 73.04
50 O.S. 1                    110.06
50 O.S. 2                    110.06
51 O.S. 24A.1 et seq.        39.01
59 O.S. 495                  73.04
59 O.S. 1001 through 1023.1  151.035
59 O.S. 1003                 151.037
59 O.S. 1010                 151.037
59 O.S. 1013                 151.037
59 O.S. 1015                 151.036
59 O.S. 1016                 151.036
59 O.S. 1020                 151.036
61 O.S. 101 et seq.          33.01
63 O.S. 420A et seq.         116.02
63 O.S. 701 through 709.2    112.01
                             34.003;
68 O.S. 101 et seq.          34.004;
                             34.015
                             34.016;
68 O.S. 205                  34.042;
                             34.082
68 O.S. 217                  34.013;
                             34.039
68 O.S. 220                  34.014;
                             34.040
                             34.015;
68 O.S. 227                  34.040;
                             34.041
68 O.S. 1354.14 et seq.      34.037
68 O.S. 1401                 34.031
82 O.S. 1084.2               155.07
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section   Code Section
Ch. 1, Art. 1, 1     31.01
Ch. 1, Art. 1, 2     31.02
Ch. 1, Art. 1, 3     31.15
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 3     30.01
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 4     30.02
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 5     30.03
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 6     30.03
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 7     30.04
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 8     30.05
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 9     30.06
Ch. 1, Art. 2, 10    30.07
Ch. 1, Art. 5, 31    31.18
Ch. 1, Art. 5, 32    31.18
Ch. 1, Art. 6        31.16
Ch. 1, Art. 8        31.17
Ch. 1, Art. 9, 52    31.30
Ch. 1, Art. 9, 53    31.31
Ch. 1, Art. 9, 54    31.32
Ch. 1, Art. 9, 55    31.33
Ch. 1, Art. 9, 56    31.34
Ch. 1, Art. 10, 58   31.45
Ch. 1, Art. 10, 59   31.46
Ch. 1, Art. 11, 60   31.47
Ch. 1, Art. 12       31.48
Ch. 1, Art. 13       31.49
Ch. 2, Art. 1        115.001
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 9     115.021
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 10    115.022
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 11    115.023
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 12    115.024
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 13    115.024
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 14    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 15    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 16    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 17    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 18    115.026
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 19    115.027
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 20    115.028
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 21    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 22    115.025
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 23    115.029
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 24    115.030
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 26    115.999
Ch. 2, Art. 2, 27    115.031
Ch. 2, Art. 3, 1     115.002
Ch. 2, Art. 3, 2     115.003
Ch. 2, Art. 3, 3     115.004
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 31    115.045
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 32    115.046
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 33    115.047
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 34    115.048
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 35    115.049
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 36    115.050
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 37    115.051
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 38    115.052
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 39    115.053
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 40    115.054
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 41    115.055
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 42    115.056
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 43    115.057
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 44    115.058
Ch. 2, Art. 4, 45    115.059
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 46    115.059
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 47    115.071
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 48    115.072
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 49    115.073
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 50    115.074
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 51    115.075
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 52    115.076
Ch. 2, Art. 5, 53    115.077
Ch. 2, Art. 6        115.005
Ch. 2, Art. 7, 56    115.999
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 57    115.090
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 58    115.091
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 59    115.092
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 60    115.093
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 61    115.093
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 62    115.093
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 63    115.093
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 64    115.999
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 65    115.094
Ch. 2, Art. 8, 66    115.093
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 1     91.01
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 2     91.02
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 3     91.03
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 4     91.04
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 5     91.05
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 6     91.06
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 7     91.07
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 8     91.08
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 9     91.09;
                     91.99
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 10    91.16
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 11    91.17
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 12    91.10;
                     91.99
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 13    91.11
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 14    91.12
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 15    91.13
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 16    91.14
Ch. 3, Art. 1, 20    91.15
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 1     151.001
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 2     151.002
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 3     151.003
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 4     151.004
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 5     151.999
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 6     151.005
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 7     152.01
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 8     152.02
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 9     152.03
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 10    152.04
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 11    152.05
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 12    152.06
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 13    152.07
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 14    152.08
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 15    152.09
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 16    152.10
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 17    152.11
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 18    152.12
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 19    152.13
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 20    152.14
Ch. 4, Art. 1, 21    152.15
Ch. 4, Art. 2, 22    152.16
Ch. 4, Art. 2, 23    152.16
Ch. 4, Art. 3, 25    151.035
Ch. 4, Art. 3, 26    151.036
Ch. 4, Art. 3, 29    151.037
Ch. 4, Art. 3, 30    151.038
Ch. 4, Art. 4, 24    152.16
Ch. 4, Art. 4, 31    151.050;
                     151.999
Ch. 4, Art. 4, 33    151.051
Ch. 4, Art. 5, 34    151.052
Ch. 4, Art. 5, 35    151.053
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 37    151.065
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 39    151.066
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 40    151.067
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 41    151.068
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 42    151.069
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 43    151.070
Ch. 4, Art. 6, 45    151.999
Ch. 4, Art. 7, 46    151.020
Ch. 4, Art. 7, 47    151.021
Ch. 4, Art. 7, 48    151.022
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 49    152.30
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 50    152.31
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 51    152.32
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 52    152.33
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 53    152.34
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 54    152.35
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 55    152.36
Ch. 4, Art. 8, 56    152.99
Ch. 4, Art. 9, 57    152.99
Ch. 4, Art. 9, 58    152.99
Ch. 5, Art. 1, 1     111.01
Ch. 5, Art. 1, 2     111.02
Ch. 5, Art. 1, 3     111.03
Ch. 5, Art. 1, 4     111.04
Ch. 5, Art. 1, 6     111.06
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 11    110.01
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 12    110.02
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 13    110.03
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 14    110.04
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 15    110.05
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 16    110.06
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 17    110.07
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 18    110.99
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 19    110.99
Ch. 5, Art. 2, 21    93.01
Ch. 5, Art. 3, 22    93.02
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 31    114.01
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 32    114.02
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 33    114.03
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 34    114.04
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 35    114.05
Ch. 5, Art. 4, 36    114.06
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 41    112.15
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 42    112.16
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 43    112.17
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 44    112.18
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 45    112.19
Ch. 5, Art. 5, 46    112.20
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 51    117.01
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 52    112.01
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 53    117.02
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 54    112.02
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 55    117.03
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 56    113.16
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 57    112.03
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 58    117.04
Ch. 5, Art. 6, 59    113.01
                     111.99;
                     112.99;
Ch. 5, Art. 7        113.99;
                     114.99;
                     117.99
Ch. 7, Art. 1, 1     33.01
Ch. 7, Art. 1, 2     33.02
Ch. 7, Art. 1, 3     33.03
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 5     34.001
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 6     34.002
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 7     34.003
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 8     34.004
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 9     34.005
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 10    34.006
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 11    34.007
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 12    34.008
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 13    34.009
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 14    34.010;
                     34.999
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 15    34.011
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 16    34.012
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 17    34.013
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 18    34.014
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 19    34.015
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 20    34.999
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 21    34.016
Ch. 7, Art. 2, 22    34.017
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 31    34.032
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 32    34.033
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 33    34.034
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 34    34.035
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 35    34.036
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 36    34.036
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 37    34.037
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 38    34.038
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 39    34.039
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 40    34.040
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 41    34.041
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 42    34.999
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 43    34.042
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 44    34.043
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 45    34.031
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 47    34.031
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 48    34.044
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 49    34.045
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 50    34.046
Ch. 7, Art. 3, 51    34.030
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 52    34.060
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 53    34.061
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 54    34.062
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 55    34.063
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 56    34.064
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 57    34.065
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 58    34.066
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 59    34.066
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 60    34.067
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 61    34.068
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 62    34.069
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 63    34.070
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 64    34.071
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 65    34.072
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 66    34.073
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 67    34.074
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 68    34.075
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 69    34.076
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 70    34.077
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 71    34.078
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 72    34.079
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 73    34.080
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 74    34.081
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 75    34.082
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 76    34.999
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 77    34.083
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 78    34.084
Ch. 7, Art. 4, 80    34.085
Ch. 8, Art. 1, 1     132.04
Ch. 8, Art. 1, 2     132.05
Ch. 8, Art. 1, 3     94.01
Ch. 8, Art. 1, 4     94.02
Ch. 8, Art. 1, 5     94.03
Ch. 8, Art. 2, 21    94.99;
                     132.99
Ch. 9, Art. 3        10.99
Ch. 10, Art. 1, 1    90.15
Ch. 10, Art. 1, 2    90.16
Ch. 10, Art. 1, 3    90.17
Ch. 10, Art. 2, 21   90.30
Ch. 10, Art. 2, 22   90.31
Ch. 10, Art. 2, 23   90.32
Ch. 10, Art. 2, 24   90.33
Ch. 10, Art. 3, 31   90.01
Ch. 10, Art. 4, 41   90.99
Ch. 11, Art. 1, 1    153.01
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 2    153.15
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 3    153.16
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 4    153.17
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 5    153.18
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 6    153.19
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 7    153.20
Ch. 11, Art. 2, 8    153.21
Ch. 11, Art. 3, 9    153.35
Ch. 11, Art. 3, 10   153.36
Ch. 11, Art. 3, 12   153.38
Ch. 11, Art. 3, 11   153.37
Ch. 11, Art. 5, 14   153.02
Ch. 11, Art. 5, 15   153.03
Ch. 12, Art. 1, 1    32.01
Ch. 12, Art. 1, 2    32.02
Ch. 12, Art. 1, 3    32.03
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 11   32.15
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 12   32.16
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 13   32.16
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 14   32.17
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 15   32.18
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 16   32.19
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 17   32.20
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 18   32.22—
                     32.24
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 19   32.21
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 20   32.25
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 21   32.26
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 22   32.27
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 23   32.28
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 24   32.29
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 25   32.30
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 26   32.31
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 27   32.32
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 28   32.33
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 29   32.34
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 30   32.35
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 31   32.37
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 32   32.38
Ch. 12, Art. 2, 33   32.39
Ch. 12, Art. 3, 41   32.99
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 1    92.01
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 2    92.02
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 3    92.03
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 4    92.01
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 5    92.04
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 6    92.05
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 7    92.06
Ch. 13, Art. 1, 8    92.07
Ch. 13, Art. 2, 11   92.08
Ch. 13, Art. 2, 12   92.09
Ch. 13, Art. 2, 13   92.10
Ch. 13, Art. 2, 14   92.11
Ch. 13, Art. 3, 21   92.99
Ch. 14, Art. 1, 1    130.01
Ch. 14, Art. 1, 2    130.02
Ch. 14, Art. 1, 3    130.03
Ch. 14, Art. 1, 4    130.04
Ch. 14, Art. 1, 5    130.05
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 11   131.01
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 12   131.02
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 13   131.03
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 14   131.04
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 15   131.05
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 16   131.06
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 17   131.07
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 18   131.08
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 19   131.09
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 20   131.10
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 21   131.11
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 22   131.12
Ch. 14, Art. 2, 23   131.13
Ch. 14, Art. 3, 31   132.01
Ch. 14, Art. 3, 32   132.02
Ch. 14, Art. 4, 41   133.01
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 51   134.01
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 52   134.02
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 53   134.03
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 54   134.04
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 55   134.05
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 56   134.06
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 57   134.07
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 58   134.08
Ch. 14, Art. 5, 59   134.09
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 71   135.01
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 72   135.02
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 73   135.03
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 74   135.04
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 75   135.05
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 76   135.06
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 77   135.07
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 78   135.08
Ch. 14, Art. 6, 79   135.09
                     131.99;
                     132.99;
Ch. 14, Art. 7       133.99;
                     134.99;
                     135.99
Ch. 15, Art. 1, 1    150.01
Ch. 15, Art. 2, 3    150.03
Ch. 15, Art. 2, 4    150.03
Ch. 15, Art. 2, 5    150.03
Ch. 15, Art. 2, 6    150.03
Ch. 15, Art. 3, 7    150.03;
                     150.99
Ch. 15, Art. 3, 8    150.04
Ch. 16, Art. 2, 1    50.01
Ch. 16, Art. 2, 2    50.02
Ch. 16, Art. 2, 3    50.03
Ch. 16, Art. 2, 5    50.06
Ch. 16, Art. 2, 6    70.01
Ch. 17, Art. 1, 1    155.04
Ch. 17, Art. 1, 2    155.05
Ch. 17, Art. 1, 3    155.06
Ch. 17, Art. 1, 4    155.07
Ch. 17, Art. 1, 5    155.08
Ch. 17, Art. 2, 11   155.01
Ch. 17, Art. 2, 12   155.02
Ch. 17, Art. 2, 13   155.03
Ch. 17, Art. 3, 21   155.99
Ch. 18, Art. 1       70.01
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 11   70.02
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 12   71.01
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 13   70.14
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 14   70.06
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 15   70.04
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 16   71.02
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 17   70.05
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 18   71.03
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 19   71.04
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 20   71.05
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 21   71.06
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 22   71.07
Ch. 18, Art. 2, 23   71.08
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 31   73.30
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 32   73.31
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 33   73.32
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 34   73.33
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 35   73.34
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 36   73.35
Ch. 18, Art. 3, 37   73.36
Ch. 18, Art. 4, 41   73.16
Ch. 18, Art. 4, 42   73.17
Ch. 18, Art. 4, 43   73.18
Ch. 18, Art. 4, 44   73.19;
                     73.99
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 51   70.25
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 52   70.26
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 53   70.27
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 54   70.28
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 56   70.29
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 57   70.30
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 58   70.31
Ch. 18, Art. 5, 59   70.32
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 71   72.01
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 72   72.02
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 73   72.03
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 74   72.04
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 75   72.05
Ch. 18, Art. 6, 76   72.06
Ch. 18, Art. 7, 81   74.01
Ch. 18, Art. 7, 82   74.02
Ch. 18, Art. 7, 83   74.03
Ch. 18, Art. 7, 84   74.04
Ch. 18, Art. 8, 91   70.13
Ch. 18, Art. 8, 92   70.13
Ch. 18, Art. 8, 93   70.13
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 101  70.03
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 102  70.07
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 103  70.08
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 104  73.01
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 105  73.02
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 106  73.03
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 107  70.09
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 108  70.10
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 109  70.11
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 110  70.12
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 111  71.10
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 112  71.11
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 113  71.12
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 114  71.13
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 115  71.14
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 116  73.04;
                     73.99
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 117  73.15;
                     73.99
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 118  32.36;
                     70.99
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 119  32.36;
                     70.99
Ch. 18, Art. 9, 120  70.99
Ch. 18, Art. 10, 121 70.99
Ch. 19, Art. 1, 1    75.01
Ch. 19, Art. 1, 2    75.02
Ch. 19, Art. 1, 4    75.03
Ch. 19, Art. 2, 11   113.15
Ch. 19, Art. 3       113.99
Ch. 19, Art. 3, 21   75.99
Ch. 20, Art. 1, 1    10.99
Ch. 20, Art. 1, 2    10.99
Ch. 20, Art. 2       11.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
2021-11-02 11-15-2021  Ch. 31, App. A
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       34.030—
9-2-86-1   - -         34.046;
                       34.999
10-01-01   1-7-2010    150.01
                       154.01—
16-03-01   3-8-2016    154.36;
                       154.99
16-12-02   12-21-2016  132.03;
                       132.99
17-04-01   4-11-2017   TSO Table I
17-9-1     9-20-2017   31.18
17-9-2     9-20-2017   31.18
17-10-1    10-12-2017  32.36
17-10-2    10-12-2017  32.35
17-12-1    12-28-2017  31.48
                       70.01;
17-12-2    12-28-2017  71.09;
                       71.99
18-07-01   7-16-2018   150.02
                       116.01—
                       116.07;
                       116.20—
                       116.22;
19-04-01   4-15-2019   116.35—
                       116.37;
                       116.50—
                       116.52;
                       116.99
                       90.45—
19-09-01   9-16-2019   90.48;
                       90.99
19-11-18   11-18-2019  TSO Table I
19-12-13   12-16-2019  112.35—
                       112.37
20-03-09   3-9-2020    TSO Table I
21-4-1     4-19-2021   TSO Table I
21-4-2     4-19-2021   TSO Table I
21-4-3     4-19-2021   TSO Table I
21-4-4     4-19-2021   92.10;
                       92.11
                       151.005;
21-4-5     4-19-2021   151.999;
                       152.07
21-6-1     6-21-2021   92.01;
                       92.11
                       153.50—
21-11-01   11-15-2021  153.58;
                       153.99
21-12-01   12-20-2021  TSO Table I
2022-02-01 2-21-2022   50.05
2022-03-02 3-21-2022   TSO Table I
2022-03-03 3-21-2022   TSO Table I
2022-03-04 3-21-2022   TSO Table I
2022-07-01 7-18-2022   31.50
2022-07-02 7-18-2022   31.51
2022-09-01 9-19-2022   TSO Table I
2022-09-02 9-19-2022   31.65—
                       31.68
2023-01-01 1-16-2023   33.15
2023-03-01 3-20-2023   TSO Table I
2023-07-01 7-17-2023   31.15
                       115.001—
2023-07-02 7-17-2023   115.004;
                       115.020;
                       115.021
2023-11-01 11-20-2023  TSO Table I
2024-04-01 4-15-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-07-01 7-15-2024   TSO Table I
2024-12-01 12-16-2024  50.05
2025-05-01 5-19-2025   31.15
2025-06-01 6-16-2025   31.48,
                       Ch. 31, App. A
                      
 
