WISTER, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. passed 8-1-2022
Published by:
Sterling Codifiers
Member of AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2020-1
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
   TOWN OF WISTER
   ORDINANCE 2020-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF WISTER, OKLAHOMA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Wister are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Board of Trustee’s for the Town of Wister the State of
Oklahoma empower and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustee’s for the Town of Wister authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of Wister
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in books
form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN OF WISTER BOARD OF TRUSTEE’S:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Wister as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Wister, Oklahoma.”
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
               Chapter:
   TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
                     1.   Wister Town Code
                     2.   Savings Clause
                     3.   Definitions and Interpretations
                     4.   General Penalty
                     5.   Corporate and Ward Limits
                     6.   Town Board of Trustees
                     7.   Town Officers and Personnel
                     8.   Specific Town Officials
                     9.   Schedule of Fees and Charges
                     10.   Municipal Court
   TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
                     1.   Planning Commission
                     2.   Board of Adjustment
   TITLE 3: FINANCE AND TAXATION
                     1.   General Finance and Purchasing Procedures
                     2.   Sales Tax
                     3.   Telephone Exchange Fee
                     4.   Utilities Tax
   TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
                     1.   Occupational Licenses Generally
                     2.   Alcoholic Beverages
                     3.   Itinerant Merchants
                     4.   Retail Marijuana Establishments
   TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
                     1.   General Health Regulations
                     2.   Nuisances
                     3.   Food Regulations
                     4.   Weeds and Trash
                     5.   Fireworks Sale and Discharge
                     6.   Junked, Wrecked Motor Vehicles
   TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
                     1.   Police Department
                     2.   Fire Department
                     3.   Civil Defense
                     4.   Offenses and Crimes
                     5.   Minors
                     6.   Animal Control
                     7.   Fair Housing; Nondiscrimination
   TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
                     1.   State Traffic Code; Administration; General
Provisions
                     2.   Vehicle Operation Generally
                     3.   Parking Regulations
                     4.   Turning and Signals; Right-of-Way
                     5.   Bicycles
                     6.   Vehicle Impoundment
   TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
                     1.   Streets, Sidewalks, and Public Ways
                     2.   Excavations
                     3.   Library
                     4.   Park and Recreation Facilities
   TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
                     1.   Public Works Authority
                     2.   Refuse Collection and Disposal
   TITLE 10: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
                     1.   Building Code and Regulations
                     2.   Plumbing Code and Regulations
                     3.   Electrical Code and Regulations
                     4.   Mechanical Code and Regulations
                     5.   Fire Prevention Code
                     6.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas and Gas Piping Codes
                     7.   Prefab or Mobile Home Use as Residence
                     8.   Zoning Regulations
                     9.   Flood Damage Prevention
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Oklahoma Statutes
   References to Prior Code
   References to Ordinances
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town of Wister Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and
ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all Courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town of Wister Board of Trustees on this 5 day of
October, 2020.
   /s/ Roger Brooks
   Roger Brooks, Mayor
Attest:   
/s/    
Clerk
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.   WISTER TOWN CODE
      
2.   SAVINGS CLAUSE
      
3.   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
      
4.   GENERAL PENALTY
      
5.   CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
      
6.   TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
7.   TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
      
8.   SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS
      
9.   SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES
      
10.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 1: WISTER TOWN CODE
Section
   1-1-1   How code designated and cited
   
1-1-2   Interpretation
   
1-1-3   Application to future ordinances
   
1-1-4   Captions and notes
   
1-1-5   Rules of interpretation
   
1-1-6   Reference to statutes
   
1-1-7   Reference to other sections
   
1-1-8   Reference to offices
   
1-1-9   Errors and omissions
   
1-1-10   Official time
   
1-1-11   Reasonable time
   
1-1-12   Effective date of ordinances
   
1-1-13   Section histories; statutory references
   
1-1-14   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of town
§ 1-1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Wister,
Oklahoma,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 1-1-2 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 1-1-3 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 1-1-4 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 1-1-5 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 1-1-6 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the state’s statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 1-1-7 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 1-1-8 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 1-1-9 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 1-1-10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 1-1-11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 1-1-12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 1-1-13 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the Prior Code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § ).”
§ 1-1-14 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN.
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside
the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect
in the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-110)
CHAPTER 2: SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
1-2-2   Severability
§ 1-2-1 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
§ 1-2-2 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Board of Trustees that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-105)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Definitions
§ 1-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Wister, Oklahoma.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
   COUNTY or THIS COUNTY. The County of LeFlore County.
   GENDER. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving “joint authority” to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the town, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words “swear” and
“sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
   OR, AND. OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR, if the sense requires
it.
   OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, i.e. “Clerk,” “Town Clerk,”
“Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Chief of Police” and the like, they shall mean
the officers, agencies or departments of the town.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the State of Oklahoma as
they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other public ways in the town
which are dedicated and open to public use.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TOWN. The Town of Wister.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-4-1   General penalty
   
1-4-2   Fines recoverable by civil action
§ 1-4-1 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding $100. Each day or any portion of a day during which
any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-108)
§ 1-4-2 FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION.
   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
CHAPTER 5: CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
Section
   
1-5-1   Map of town designated as official map
   
1-5-2   Ward boundaries
§ 1-5-1 MAP OF TOWN DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of July 1, 1991.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 1-5-2 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   The town is divided into three wards as indicated in the town’s ward map.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
CHAPTER 6: TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Town Board of Trustees and Mayor; Elections
   
1-6-1   General powers
   
1-6-2   Board of Trustees
   
1-6-3   Meetings of the Town Board
   
1-6-4   Rules of order and procedure
   
1-6-5   Trustees may be designated to perform duties
   
1-6-6   County Election Board to conduct town elections
   
1-6-7   Election and duties of the Mayor
   
1-6-8   Opting out of the State Town Meeting Act
Town Board Rules of Order
   
1-6-20   Board to determine rules
Trustees Elected at Large
   
1-6-35   Procedure
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR; ELECTIONS
§ 1-6-1 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101, the town shall have
all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities
granted, or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory Town Board
of Trustees form of government. These powers shall be exercised as provided by
law applicable to towns under the Board of Trustees form of government, or, if
the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the Board of Trustees may
prescribe.
   (B)   The powers, rights and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 1-6-2 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members.
   (B)   The term of office for a Trustee shall be four years beginning at 12:
00 noon on the second Monday following the general municipal election. The
Trustee shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
      (1)   The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
municipal election, the following Trustees are elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustees; and
         (b)   Clerk.
      (2)   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustees from Ward Two; and
         (b)   Treasurer.
   (C)   The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of four-
year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
§ 1-6-3 MEETINGS OF THE TOWN BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly, on the first Monday of
each month at 6:30 p.m., and at such other times as it may prescribe by
ordinance, resolution or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Where the day for a
meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the state, the meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. Special
meetings may be called by the Mayor or any two Trustees. A majority of all the
members of the Board shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller
number may adjourn from day to day.
   (B)   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town Hall
unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place in the town
for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the town designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
§ 1-6-4 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance
of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all meetings of the
Board, regular and special, held within any period of four consecutive months,
he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   The order of business for each meeting of the Board may be as posted
on the agenda for the meeting.
   (C)   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the Board unless two Trustees agree to waive the rule or rules:
      (1)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing;
      (2)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall
not be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority;
      (3)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated
by the Mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the Board and
cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the Board;
      (4)   (a)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
            1.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
            2.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
            3.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
            4.   While a vote is being taken.
         (b)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which
the meeting is adjourned;
      (5)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To lay on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a day certain;
         (e)   To commit;
         (f)   To amend; or
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely, which several motions shall have
precedence in the order they stand arranged;
      (6)   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      (7)   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      (8)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      (9)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put; and
      (10)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by
the presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated
unless under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
§ 1-6-5 TRUSTEES MAY BE DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees, by majority vote, may designate various ones, of its
members or a committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel
and activities of the town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may
give each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such
Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
§ 1-6-6 COUNTY ELECTION BOARD TO CONDUCT TOWN ELECTIONS.
   The town elects its officers and decides initiative and referendum questions
through elections conducted by the county election board pursuant to 11 O.S. §§
16-101 et seq. The town is not governed by the State Town Meeting Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-106)
§ 1-6-7 ELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The
Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected and
qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or
she shall be recognized as head of the Town government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights,
duties and responsibilities of a trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
   (C)   During the absence, disability or suspension of the Mayor, the Board
shall elect from among its members an acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
§ 1-6-8 OPTING OUT OF THE STATE TOWN MEETING ACT.
   (A)   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town hereby declares that it shall
not be governed by the State Town Meeting Act as a means of electing its
officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions.
   (B)   The town shall hereby elect its officers and decide initiative and
referendum questions through election conducted by the County Election Board
pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-101.
   (C)   The effective date of this section was February 3, 2003.
   (D)   The town has less than 1,000 residents as of the 2000 Federal Census.
(Ord. 0103, passed 2-3-2003)
TOWN BOARD RULES OF ORDER
§ 1-6-20 BOARD TO DETERMINE RULES.
   (A)   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance
of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
   (B)   Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all meeting of
the Board, regular and special, held within any period of four consecutive
months, or failure to attend 70% of all meetings in a year’s period, whichever
comes first, then he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
(Ord. 2-104A, passed 8-6-2012)
TRUSTEES ELECTED AT LARGE
§ 1-6-35 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members who shall be
nominated and elected at large without regard to their place of residence
within the corporate limits of the town. Trustees shall be actual residents and
registered voters of the town for at least six months prior to filing a
declaration of candidacy.
      (2)   The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of
Trustees to be elected for four-year terms and the number of Trustees to be
elected to fill unexpired terms, if any. The resolution shall direct that the
ballot shall state the number of offices of Trustee(s) to be filled for each
term and that the voters shall vote for the number of offices to be filled.
   (B)   Candidates for the office of Trustee shall file for a specific term,
which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy. Candidates receiving
the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected.
(Ord. 060407A, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 7: TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
   
1-7-1   Appointment and removal of officers and employees
   
1-7-2   Bonds
   
1-7-3   Oaths
   
1-7-4   Salaries and compensation
   
1-7-5   Officers to continue until successors elected and qualify
   
1-7-6   Appointment of personnel in emergencies
§ 1-7-1 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as
it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or
resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
   (B)   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten days, demoted
or removed may appeal in writing to the Town Board. The appeal must be filed
with the Town Clerk for transmittal to the Board within ten days after receipt
of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. As soon as
practicable thereafter, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the appeal, or
give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in writing its findings
and recommendations and make its final decision in writing regarding the
appellant’s layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. If the Board finds that
the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal was made in error, it shall veto
the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal and order the reinstatement of the
employee or officer. Any proceedings of the Board shall be subject to open
meeting laws and applicable exceptions provided for executive sessions.
Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid off, suspended without
pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written statement, hearings and
procedures required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
§ 1-7-2 BONDS.
   The Board shall require the Town Clerk and Treasurer and any other officers
and employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give bond for
the faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the Board shall
prescribe. The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The town may require
the officer to secure the bond within ten days after his or her election or
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
§ 1-7-3 OATHS.
   Officers of the town shall take the oath or affirmation of office prescribed
by the State Constitution before they enter upon their duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 1-7-4 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Salaries of elected officials. The compensation of all elective town
officers, including the following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Each Trustee;
      (3)   Town Clerk; and
      (4)   Town Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
   (B)   Compensation of employees, number and classes of personnel.
      (1)   The compensation of all other officers and employees excepting
those whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be
determined by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, and may be
changed at any time in the same manner.
      (2)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
   (C)   Salaries of certain officers not to be changed after election or
appointment. 
      (1)   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer
elected or appointed for a definite term, be changed after his or her election
or appointment or during his or her term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited
by the Constitution, Article 23, § 10.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite
terms nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 1-7-5 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 1-7-6 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES.
   The Mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers and
employees as he or she may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence of the emergency,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a special meeting
or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor. The Board of
Trustees may determine the compensation of such emergency employees by motion
or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff or removal of such personnel
at the conclusion of such emergency. For the purposes of this section, the term
EMERGENCY shall be defined to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or
catastrophic event affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-313)
CHAPTER 8: SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-8-1   Town Clerk
   
1-8-2   Town Treasurer
   
1-8-3   Deputy Clerk and Deputy Treasurer
   
1-8-4   Town Attorney
   
1-8-5   Health Officer
§ 1-8-1 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk is an elected official of the town, elected for a four-
year term.
      (1)   The Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
         (b)   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
         (c)   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be
provided by law or ordinance and have custody of the town seal;
         (d)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required
by law or ordinance; and
         (e)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance or by the Board.
      (2)   The pay period for the Town Clerk shall be monthly, with the amount
paid contingent upon the Clerk’s performance of the Clerk’s statutory duties of
the office.
   (B)   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such duties
relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office operations of
the town as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. The position shall be filled
by the person serving as the Town Clerk or as otherwise provided by the Board
of Trustees. The person shall be an employee of the town and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees. The pay period for such position shall be
the same as for other municipal employees. Benefits, holidays and sick leave
for such position shall be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or
other policy of the town. The salary of the position shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 1-8-2 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer is an elected official of the town, elected for a
four-year term.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any monies
have been paid;
      (2)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
      (3)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance.
   (C)   The Treasurer’s books and accounts shall at all times be subject to
examination by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
§ 1-8-3 DEPUTY CLERK AND DEPUTY TREASURER.
   (A)   There may be created the offices of:
      (1)   Deputy Town Clerk; and
      (2)   Deputy Town Treasurer.
   (B)   Persons appointed to fill the positions shall be appointed by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 1-8-4 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the services
of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The Town
Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the Board, all
officers, departments and agencies of the town government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He or she may represent the town in
proceedings in the courts and perform services incident to his or her position
which may be required by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 1-8-5 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The County Health
Officer or any qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer if so designated by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
CHAPTER 9: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES
Section
   
1-9-1   Schedule of fees and charges
§ 1-9-1 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The schedule of fees and charges is set forth as follows.
TOWN OF WISTER 2020 FEE SCHEDULE
Fee Schedule - Town of Wister
 
Copies - $.25 each                     Notary Fee - $5.00
Record Copies - $1.00 Each             Administration Fee - $30.00
Fax - $1.00 up to four                 Pavilion Rental - $50.00
Return Check Fee - $25.00              Business Permit Fee - $75.00
Research Fee - $12.50 per item         Court Cost - $30.00
Animal Impound Fee - $99.00 + boarding  
 
Fee Schedule - Occupational Tax
 
Brewer - $1,250.00                          Retail Package Store Wine - $800.00
Caterer Mixed Beverage - $1,000.00          Beer and Wine - $800.00
Distiller - $3,125.00                       Winemaker - $625.00
Mixed Beverage Beer and/or Wine - $1,000.00 Small Farm Winemaker - $75.00
Retail Spirit Store - $305.00               Wholesaler - $3500 Exempt - $625.00
Retail Package Store Beer - $500.00         Special Event - $55.00
 
Fee Schedule - Dispensary Permit Fee
 
Dispensary Fee - $2,500.00  
 
Fee Schedule - Wister Fire Department   
Fee Schedule - Rural Fire Non-membership Charge   
 
$350 per fire vehicle $20.00 per fireman per hour
 
Fee Schedule - Rural Fire - Membership Charge
 
Residential - $40.00 Business - $60.00
 
Fee Schedule - Wister Public Works Authority
Fee Schedule - Water Deposits, Taps, and late fees
 
Meter Deposit residential - $150.00 Water Tap - $600.00
Meter Deposit Restaurant - $500.00  Sewer Tap - $300.00
Reconnect Fee Water - $50.00        Water Late fee - 10% after 10th
 
Fee Schedule - Water
 
TYPE - WATER   FLAT RATE PER 1000 GALLON
Residential    $17.00    $5.53
Rural          $20.08    $6.45
Town Business  $17.96    $5.53
Rural Business $22.20    $6.45
 
Fee Schedule - Sewer
 
TYPE - SEWER FLAT RATE PER 1000 GALLON
Residential  $14.00    $1.38
Business     $32.08    $2.09
 
Fee Schedule - Trash
 
TYPE - TRASH FLAT RATE HYDRANT WATER
Residential  $11.00    Hookup $25.75 per day
Business     $14.75    After 1000 gal. $5.00
 
 
Fee Schedule - Wister Police Department
   See §
1-10-36 of this code for costs and fines for town violations.
CHAPTER 10: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
1-10-1   Organization of Municipal Court
   
1-10-2   Definitions
   
1-10-3   Jurisdiction of Court
   
1-10-4   Judge; qualifications
   
1-10-5   Term of Judge
   
1-10-6   Alternate Judge
   
1-10-7   Acting Judge
   
1-10-8   Appointment of Judge and Alternate Judge
   
1-10-9   Salary and payments to Judges
   
1-10-10   Removal of Judge
   
1-10-11   Vacancy in office of Judge
   
1-10-12   Disqualification of Judge
   
1-10-13   Court Marshal, Chief of Police
   
1-10-14   Clerk of the Court; duties
   
1-10-15   Prosecuting attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
1-10-16   Bond of Clerk
   
1-10-17   Rules of Court
   
1-10-18   Enforcement of rules
   
1-10-19   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
1-10-20   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation;
custody, arrest
   
1-10-21   Traffic bail and procedures
   
1-10-22   Creation of Traffic Violations Bureau
   
1-10-23   Summons for arrest
   
1-10-24   Form of arrest warrant
   
1-10-25   Procedures for bail or bond
   
1-10-26   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
1-10-27   Trial by jury and waiver
   
1-10-28   Trials and judgments
   
1-10-29   Witness fees
   
1-10-30   Sentencing
   
1-10-31   Imprisonment, work by prisoners
   
1-10-32   Fines and costs
   
1-10-33   Penalty assessment
   
1-10-34   Collection of costs; incarceration
   
1-10-35   Collection fees
   
1-10-36   Costs and fines
§ 1-10-1 ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Criminal Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution, duly
passed and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and
27-102.
   (B)   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any ordinance of this town, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
§ 1-10-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK.  The Clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member of
the office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the Town of Wister.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Town Board of Trustees of the Town of Wister.
   JUDGE.  The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any acting Judge or
alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Wister, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 1-10-3 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 1-10-4 JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge may be an attorney licensed
to practice law in the state or a resident of this municipality, of the age of
21 years or older, possessed of good moral character. A Judge who is a licensed
attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he or she shall
not accept employment inconsistent with his or her duties as Judge, or arising
out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein. He or she may serve as Judge of other municipal courts, if
such service may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as Judge
of this Court, with the consent of the Mayor and town.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 6-104, passed 4-9-2014)
§ 1-10-5 TERM OF JUDGE.
   The official term of the Judge shall be two years expiring on a date fixed
by the Town Board in each odd-numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed
for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 1-10-6 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an alternate
Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge in this
chapter. His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court:
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 1-10-7 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge or alternate Judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge, who shall
preside as acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 1-10-8 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   Judges and alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to
the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to
the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon
at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the Mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 1-10-9 SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES.
   (A)   A Judge, other than an alternate Judge or an acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
   (B)   An alternate Judge or an acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the governing body, however payments to an acting or
alternate Judge shall not exceed the salary set for a Judge in whose stead he
or she sits.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 1-10-10 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal.
   (B)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
      (1)   The Mayor; or
      (2)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   (C)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Representation by counsel;
      (2)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him
or her; and
      (3)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (E)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309
to 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 1-10-11 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 1-10-12 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but
the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a Judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting Judge
appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
§ 1-10-13 COURT MARSHAL, CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the Court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of this municipality, who shall be the principal
officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 1-10-14 CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES.
   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk of the
Court. He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. He
or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct. He or she shall receive and receipt for
forfeitures, fines, deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or she
shall pay to the Treasurer of this municipality all money so received by him or
her, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed
by him or her for special purposes. All money paid to the Treasurer shall be
placed in the General Fund of the municipality, or in such other funds as the
governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
Municipal Court government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing
the fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
§ 1-10-15 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The Attorney for this municipality, or his or her duly designated assistant,
may be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He or she shall also prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town. He or she may be authorized,
in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error
and review from this Court to any other Court of the state, and to represent
this municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 1-10-16 BOND OF CLERK.
   The Court Clerk of the Court shall give bond in the form provided by 11 O.S.
§ 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for
approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this municipality
and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 1-10-17 RULES OF COURT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of this municipality for the proper conduct of the business
of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 1-10-18 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding Court, or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district
courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 1-10-19 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled “The Town of Wister vs. (naming defendant or defendants)”. Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 1-10-20 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION;
CUSTODY, ARREST:
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, in lieu of
arresting such a person, he or she may release the person on personal
recognizance in accordance with §
1-10-21, or take his or her name, address, operator’s license number, and
registered license number of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent
and necessary information and may issue him or her in writing in form
prescribed by the Mayor or his or her duly designated delegate, a traffic
citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the
charge against him or her at a time, not later than the date specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
Court, as specified in the citation;
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in
division (A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require, the
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A)
or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
§ 1-10-21 TRAFFIC BAIL AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any party jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(f) above;
         (h)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (I)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in this state, or in
the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the Nonresident Violator Compact.
   (C)   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driver’s
license, shall be required in state law, 22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   (D)   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the
copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible copy thereof,
together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
Court Clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the
defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in
this division (D), such plea shall be accepted by the Court and the amount of
the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the violation
charged or as prescribed by the Court.
   (E)   (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the Court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the Municipal or District Court Clerk, within
120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting
officer, shall notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the Court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   The Court Clerk shall request the State Department of Public Safety
to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state and request suspension of
the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of the
Nonresident Violator Compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the State Department of Public Safety.
      (3)   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this division (E)(3) if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   The Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver’s
license suspension submitted to the State Department of Public Safety pursuant
to the provisions of this section. When the Court or Court Clerk receives
appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes
other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the Court
Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant
personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage,
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the Court or Court
Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the Nonresident Violator Compact,
and shall in all other cases, notify the State Department of Public Safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the State Department of Public Safety;
provided, however, the Court or Court Clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this division (F) shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the Court, the Court Clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 1-10-22 CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There may be established a Traffic Violations Bureau for the town. The
Judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with the
ordinances of this municipality, for the Traffic Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall be staffed by Court personnel and
be physically separate and apart from the Police Department.
   (C)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a Court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the Judge under the Court’s rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the governing body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the Clerk’s Office.
   (D)   Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. In no event shall any
such payment be introduced as evidence in any civil cause arising out of the
offense charged.
   (E)   In no event shall payment of a fine without Court appearance be
accepted in the Traffic Violations Bureau for the following offenses:
      (1)   A second traffic offense;
      (2)   A driver’s license offense; or
      (3)   An offense punishable by fine more than that provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 1-10-23 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, he or she shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Court on a certain day as specified after
the summons is served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 1-10-24 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of
this municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest,
in substantially the following form:
      The Town of Wister to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Wister,
Oklahoma.
      Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name
of defendant) before me, at the municipal courtroom.
      Witness my hand this ________day of ____________, 20___.
      Judge of the Municipal Court Wister, Oklahoma.
   (B)   It is the duty of the marshal, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
§ 1-10-25 PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   (A)   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the Judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt of bail. In case
of arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the
Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his
or her designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less
than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for
the offense charged.
   (B)   A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the Town Board and amended from
time to time by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
§ 1-10-26 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Judge, or the Attorney of the municipality, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence
or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not
guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the Court may proceed to try the
case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 1-10-27 TRIAL BY JURY AND WAIVER.
   (A)   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine of
more than $100 or by imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment, trial
shall be by jury, unless waived by the defendant. If trial by jury is waived,
trial shall be to the Court.
   (B)   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he or she demands
or waives trial by jury. His or her election shall be recorded in the minutes
of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the Court respecting
proceedings in the case.
   (C)   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed by
the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the Court is set;
an election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 1-10-28 TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   (D)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   (E)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (F)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (G)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day
imprisonment for each $5 of fine.
   (H)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the Court
minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the county wherein the
status of government is situated where it shall be entered upon the District
Court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District
Court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the
enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 6-128)
§ 1-10-29 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court other than the police
officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees
or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same
travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      (4)   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her proper
defense. The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
§ 1-10-30 SENTENCING.
   (A)   The Judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a sentence in
accordance with 11 O.S. §§27-123 and 27-124.
   (B)   A Judge who is licensed to practice law in this state in imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his or her discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce
or suspend or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six months from the date of
sentence, under such terms or conditions as the Judge may specify. Procedures
relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in
11 O.S. § 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be
discharged without a Court judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of
guilty or pleas of guilty shall be expunged from the record and the charge
dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a finding of the Court
that the conditions of probation have been violated, the Municipal Judge may
enter a judgment of guilty. The Judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment
and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six months from the date of
sentence. At the expiration of such period of time, the Judge may allow the
Municipal Attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a deferred
sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to exceed $100 may be imposed
as costs in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-130)
§ 1-10-31 IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the Chief of Police
of the municipality, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance
of the municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the
jail, farm or workhouse, of the municipality, in the discretion of the Court,
for the time specified in the sentence; provided, however, the Court may, in
lieu of imprisonment, order the defendant to engage in a term of community
service without compensation.
   (B)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the
Sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (C)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty,
upon request of the prisoner and if approved by the town, may be allowed to
work on the public streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings or other public
premises or property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited
for serving two days of imprisonment under his or her sentence.
   (D)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the governing body,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or herself, or
by some person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-131)
§ 1-10-32 FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Clerk of the Court shall tax the defendant in a sum not exceeding
$30, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, all of which the
defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine or administrative fees that may be
imposed, and in addition to any state-mandated fees or costs. No Court cost
will be assessed for parking or seat belt violations.
   (B)   The town’s schedule of fines, as adopted and amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. A copy of the schedule
is on file in the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 6-132) (Ord. 6-132-0206217, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 1-10-33 PENALTY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of $10 or more
or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing violations, or any person
forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense, shall be ordered by the
Court to pay $4 as a separate penalty assessment, which shall be in addition to
and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided
for by law for such offense. The Court shall provide for separate bail for the
penalty assessment. A defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety
may include the amount of the penalty assessment in the undertaking.
   (B)   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the Court shall collect the
penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for that purpose. As an
administrative fee for handling funds collected as a penalty assessment, the
Court is authorized to retain 2% of such monies and may also retain all
interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for deposits as provided in this
division (B). The remainder of such monies shall be forwarded quarterly by the
Court Clerk to the State Treasury. Deposits shall be due July 15 for the
preceding quarter ending June 30, October 15 for the preceding quarter ending
September 30, June 15 for the preceding quarter ending December 31, and April
15 for the preceding quarter ending March 31.
   (C)   As used in this section, CONVICTED means any final adjudication of
guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or otherwise,
and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
(Prior Code, § 6-133)
§ 1-10-34 COLLECTION OF COSTS; INCARCERATION.
   (A)   The Town Municipal Court shall require a person who is actually
received into custody at a jail facility of holding facility or who is confined
in a town or county jail or holding facility, for any offense, to pay the town
the costs it incurs in conjunction with the incarceration, both before and
after conviction, upon conviction or receiving a deferred sentence.
      (1)   The costs of incarceration shall be collected by the Clerk of the
Court as provided for collection of other costs and fines. Costs of
incarceration shall include booking, receiving and processing out, housing,
food, clothing, medical care, dental care and psychiatric services. The costs
for incarceration shall be an amount equal to the cost of the services and
shall be determined by the Chief of Police for town jails and holding
facilities, by the County Sheriff for county jails, or by contract amount, if
applicable. In the event a person requires emergency medical treatment for an
injury or condition that threatens life or threatens the loss or use of a limb
prior to being actually received into the custody of any jail facility, the
provisions of 21 O.S. §533 shall apply to taking custody, medical care and cost
responsibility.
      (2)   The Court shall order the defendant to reimburse all actual costs
of incarceration, upon conviction or upon entry of a deferred judgment and
sentence, unless the defendant is a mentally ill person as defined by 43A O.S.
§ 1-103.
         (a)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall give notice to the defendant of
the actual costs owed before any Court-ordered costs are collected. The
defendant shall have an-opportunity to object to the amount of costs solely on
the grounds that the number of days served is incorrect. If no objection is
made within ten days of the defendant receiving notice of the actual costs owed
by the Municipal Court Clerk as provided herein, the costs may be collected in
the amount stated in the notice to the defendant.
         (b)   The costs of incarceration are due and owing to the town withing
30 days of the date the defendant receives notice of the costs, unless other
payment arrangements are made with the Municipal Court Clerk. If an objection
to the amount of costs is made as provided herein, the matter shall be set for
hearing on the next date on which the Municipal Court has a scheduled docket.
Notice of this, hearing shall be given to the defendant. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the Municipal Judge shall enter an order relating to costs, which
order shall be consistent with this section. The municipality is authorized to
collect any remaining balance of the incarceration costs by civil action.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided in 21 O.S. § 533, any offender
receiving routine or emergency medical services or medications or injured
during the commission of a felony or misdemeanor offense and administered any
medical care shall be required to reimburse the municipality the full amount
paid by the municipality for any medical care or treatment administered to such
offender during any period of incarceration or when the person was actually
received into custody for any reason in that jail facility. The municipality is
authorized to collect any remaining balance of the medical care and treatment
by civil actions.
   (C)   Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the person owed to the
municipality, and may be collected as provided by law for collection of any
other civil debt or criminal penalty.
   (D)   Given the amount of monies the town is having to pay for incarceration
fees, the Town Board of Trustees hereby deems that an emergency exists, and
that an emergency measure is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace,
health or safety, and that this section shall go into effect immediately upon
its passage, approval and adoption.
(Ord. 081605, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 1-10-35 COLLECTION FEES.
   A collection fee of 35% of Court penalties, cost fines and fees in cases in
which the accused has failed to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a
monetary obligation imposed by the Court shall be added to any such case which
is referred to a collection agency for collection.
(Ord. 6-132-0206217, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 1-10-36 COSTS AND FINES.
   From and after the passage of this section, any person, firm or corporation,
found guilty of a violation of any of the ordinances of the town, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed the amount listed herein below plus costs as
provided under 11 O.S.
Actual physical control                                 $495
All other criminal violations                           $269
Cruelty to animals                                      $269
Animal at large                                         $269
All other violations civil                              $199
Assault                                                 $495
Assault and battery                                     $495
Assault on a police officer                             $495
Attempting to elude an officer                          $495
Bogus tag or decal                                      $310
Carrying a concealed weapon                             $310
Contempt of Court (direct)                              $261
Contempt of Court-failure to appear                     $261
Contributing to delinquency minor                       $495
Court cost                                              $30
Curfew violation                                        $140
Defective or improper equipment                         $179
Destruction of town or private property                 $310
Discharging a firearm within municipal boundaries       $279
Disobeying or disrespect to officer                     $279
Disturbing the peace                                    $279
Drinking alcoholic beverages public                     $477
Driving under suspension                                $495
Driving under influence alcohol/drugs                   $495
Driving while impaired                                  $495
Expired or no driver’s license in possession          $199
Failure to comply with comp. insurance                  $310
Failure to pay taxes (expired tags)                     $250
Failure to render aid to an officer                     $495
Failure to stop at a stop sign                          $179
Failure to stop for school bus                          $310
Failure to yield from stop                              $279
Failure to yield to an emergency vehicle                $279
False fire alarm                                        $476
Fighting in public                                      $310
Following too close                                     $159
Following too close to emergency vehicle                $279
Gambling                                                $310
Giving false information to an officer                  $310
Harmful deception                                       $310
Illegal U-turn                                          $189
Improper lane use                                       $189
Improper modification no exhaust system                 $189
Improper parking                                        $189
Improper passing                                        $189
Improper turn                                           $189
Improperly parked in handicap zone                      $199
Indecent exposure                                       $495
Interfering with an officer in line of duty             $310
Leaving scene of property damage/injury                 $310
Littering                                               $279
Loitering                                               $160
Minor in possession of alcohol                          $240
Molesting vehicles or building/property                 $289
No seat belt                                            $20
No child restraints                                     $199
Operating a vehicle not reasonable                      $299
Permitting unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle $299
Petty larceny                                           $310
Possession of drug paraphernalia                        $500
Possession of illegal drugs                             $500
Possession of marijuana                                 $500
Use of abusive or indecent language                     $229
Public intoxication                                     $385
Public nuisance                                         $299
Reckless driving                                        $350
Resisting arrest                                        $435
Speeding 1-10 mph over speed limit                      $169
Speeding 11-15 mph over speed limit                     $179
Speeding 16-20 mph over speed limit                     $189
Speeding 21 mph or more over speed limit                $199
Tampering with public utilities                         $310
Transporting a loaded firearm                           $410
Transporting open container beer                        $299
Transporting open container liquor/wine                 $299
Trespassing                                             $299
Unlawful assembly                                       $229
Unlawfully using air guns/BB guns/sling shot            $210
Unseemly conduct (peeping tom)                          $495
Vehicle blocking streets or private drive               $189
Vehicle blocking view of intersection                   $189
 
(Ord. passed 1-7-2019)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
CHAPTER 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
2-1-1   Created; membership
   
2-1-2   Organization; meetings; officers and employees
   
2-1-3   Powers and duties
   
2-1-4   To have power of a Zoning Commission
§ 2-1-1 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   A Town Planning Commission may be created for the town. It shall consist of
six appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the town, and the
Mayor and the Town Engineer (if any) as ex officio members. The appointive
members shall be nominated by the Mayor and appointed by the Board of Trustees
and shall serve for terms of three years. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired terms. The members shall serve without compensation. The Board of
Trustees may remove members of the Town Planning Commission for cause. The Town
Board of Trustees may carry out the functions of the Planning Commission until
a Commission is appointed.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
§ 2-1-2 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice
Chairperson and Secretary, who shall serve until the first Monday of the next
May after their election. The Secretary need not be a member of the Commission.
The Commission shall determine the time and place of its regular meetings; and
the Chairperson or any three members may call special meetings of the
Commission.
   (B)   The Commission may employ engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help
deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Their salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Board, and shall
be paid out of the Town Treasury as other salaries and compensation are paid.
   (D)   The necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the Town Treasury as
other legal expenses of the town government are paid.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
§ 2-1-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
for it by state law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter prescribed
for it by any other provision of ordinance or law.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
§ 2-1-4 TO HAVE POWER OF A ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Planning Commission is hereby appointed the Zoning Commission
of the town, and the Town Planning Commission shall have the powers of a Zoning
Commission as provided by state law. Whether exercising the powers of a
planning commission or the powers of a zoning commission, it shall be legally
one board known as the Town Planning Commission.
   (B)   Exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the Town Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a Zoning Commission by state law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable state law to such authorities.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
CHAPTER 2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
2-2-1   Board of Adjustment
§ 2-2-1 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created, consisting of five members,
nominated by the Mayor with approval of the Town Board. This Board shall have
the powers and duties as authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-105)
TITLE 3: FINANCE AND TAXATION
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL FINANCE AND PURCHASING PROCEDURES
      
2.   SALES TAX
      
3.   TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
      
4.   UTILITIES TAX
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL FINANCE AND PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
3-1-1   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
3-1-2   Funds secured by unit collateral system
   
3-1-3   Purchases, how made
   
3-1-4   When prior approval by Town Board of Trustees is required
§ 3-1-1 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   All banks and all savings and loan associations in this county which are
incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the town. The Town Treasurer shall deposit daily all public
funds received by him or her in such banks or savings and loan associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 3-1-2 FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 3-1-3 PURCHASES, HOW MADE.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the town government shall be made by
the Town Board of Trustees or by other town personnel in accordance with
purchase authorizations issued by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 3-1-4 WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES IS REQUIRED.
   The Town Board may provide that certain contracts for, or purchases of,
supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services shall require the prior
approval of the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
CHAPTER 2: SALES TAX
Section
   
3-2-1   Citation and codification
   
3-2-2   Definitions
   
3-2-3   Tax Collector defined
   
3-2-4   Classification of taxpayers
   
3-2-5   Subsisting state permits
   
3-2-6   Effective date
   
3-2-7   Purpose of revenues
   
3-2-8   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
3-2-9   Exemptions; sales subject to other tax
   
3-2-10   Exemptions; governmental and nonprofit entities
   
3-2-11   Exemptions; general
   
3-2-12   Exemptions; agriculture
   
3-2-13   Exemptions; manufacturers
   
3-2-14   Exemptions; corporations and partnerships
   
3-2-15   Tax due when; returns; records
   
3-2-16   Payment of tax; brackets
   
3-2-17   Tax constitutes debt
   
3-2-18   Vendor’s duty to collect tax; penalties
   
3-2-19   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
3-2-20   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
3-2-21   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
3-2-22   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
3-2-23   Fraudulent returns
   
3-2-24   Records confidential
   
3-2-25   Amendments
   
3-2-26   Provisions cumulative
§ 3-2-1 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Wister Sales Tax
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 3-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §1352, and in 37A O.S. § 1-103, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The definition of “gross receipts” in the State Sales Tax Code is
hereby augmented to contain the additional following words: “The total retail
sale price received for the sale, preparation or service of mixed beverages,
ice and non-alcoholic beverages to be mixed with alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation or service occurs
shall constitute the gross receipts from such transaction.”
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 3-2-3 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used in this chapter, means the department of the
town or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law or
contract, and authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 3-2-4 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 3-2-5 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this chapter,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 3-2-6 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the town voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
§ 3-2-7 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is the purpose of the sales taxes levied by this chapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 3-2-8 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 2% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Code including but
not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any messages;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and the
service of printing or over-printing, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (H)   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or software
or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs have
been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
   (I)   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this chapter;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racket ball
or hand ball courts;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered; provided, if the rental or
lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making
the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the
rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the
statement, bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred; provided, persons regularly engaged in the business of
exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed
under this chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect to
the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or licensing of such
films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this chapter;
   (S)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or not
same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery
business in this state, including all orders taken by a state business for
delivery in another state; provided, all orders taken outside this state for
delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by this
chapter;
   (T)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salespersons, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (U)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
   (V)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairmen, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)
§ 3-2-9 EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the State Sales Tax Code
inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
   (A)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   (B)   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the State Motor Vehicle Excise Tax levied
by state law has been paid;
   (C)   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This division (C) shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
this state; and
   (D)   Sale of aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 6001
through 6004 has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
§ 3-2-10 EXEMPTIONS; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state, any political subdivision of this state or any
agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, the state or any of its political subdivisions shall not be
exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter provided;
   (B)   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies
or instrumentalities of the United States government if ownership and
possession of such property transfers immediately to the United States
government;
   (C)   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
   (D)   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
   (E)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
   (F)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   (G)   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported, college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
   (H)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt from
sales tax;
   (I)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the state system of
higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with whom
any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly entered
into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such public
contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person making
purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state shall certify,
in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the
vendor that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision or
agency of this state and set out the name of such public subdivision or agency.
Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are for any
of the above named subdivision or agencies of this state or who otherwise
violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the sales tax
involved or incarcerated for not more than 60 days or both;
   (J)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private
institutions of higher education and private institutions of higher education
and private elementary and secondary institutions of education accredited by
the State Department of Education or registered by the State Board of Education
for purposes of participating in federal programs or accredited as defined by
the State Regents for Higher Education which are exempt from taxation pursuant
to the provisions of I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), including materials, supplies, and
equipment used in the construction and improvement of buildings and other
structures owned by the institutions and operated for education purposes. Any
person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on behalf of any institution,
agency or subdivision in this state, shall certify in writing, on the copy of
the invoice of sales ticket the nature of the purchases, and violation of this
act shall be a misdemeanor as set forth in division (I) above;
   (K)   Tuition and education fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the State Department of Education or registered by the State
Board of Education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the State Regents for Higher Education which are
exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of the I.R.C. § 501(c)(3); and
   (L)   Sales of tangible personal property made by public or private school
for grade levels kindergarten through twelfth grade, a public school district,
public school board, public school student group or organization or public
school district personnel for purposes of raising funds for the benefit of such
school, school district, school board, student group or organization. For
purposes of this division (L), PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOL shall mean any public
or private institution of education accredited by the State Department of
Education or registered by the State Board of Education for purposes of
participating in federal programs. Sale of tangible personal property in this
division (L) shall not include sale of admission tickets or concessions at
athletic events.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
§ 3-2-11 EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or high
schools in motor or other vehicles;
   (B)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $1, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of a
municipality except by taxicab;
   (C)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $0.75. A carrier is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
   (D)   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salespersons who do not
have an established place of business and a sales tax permit;
   (E)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and billboard
advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic media,
including radio, television and cable television;
   (F)   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he or she
is regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the State Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant
the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor
shall be a misdemeanor;
   (G)   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 O.S. §
353.1;
   (H)   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled or filled
returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the business
of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially filled or
filled returnable oil drums;
   (I)   Sales of food or food products for home consumption which are
purchased in whole or in part with coupons issued pursuant to the Federal Food
Stamp Program as authorized by 7 U.S.C. §§ 2011 through 2029, as to that
portion purchased with such coupons. The exemption provided for such sales
shall be inapplicable to such sales upon the effective date of any federal law
that removes the requirement of the exemption as a condition for participation
by the state in the Federal Food Stamp Program; and
   (J)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the town
from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas and
electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales tax
levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to
previously imposed state sales tax on such items.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
§ 3-2-12 EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the producer
thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold at or from
a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
      (1)   Farm, orchard or garden products;
      (2)   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
      (3)   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; or
      (4)   The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein.
   (B)   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock sale;
   (C)   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
   (D)   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool-bearing stock, for the purpose, of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
      (2)   Feed purchased in the state for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
      (3)   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
      (4)   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds or such other fur-bearing animals; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy.
   (E)   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he or she is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
      (2)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
or she is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or
leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business
of farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he or she shall further
certify that his or her contract price has been reduced so as to give the
farmer or rancher the full benefit of this exemption;
      (3)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals
to persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
chapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the
meaning of the Sales Tax Code. As used in this section, AGRICULTURAL
FERTILIZER, PHARMACEUTICALS and BIOLOGICALS mean any substance sold and used
for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the growth and
productivity of plants or animals;
      (4)   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
      (5)   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purposes
of this Act, AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL PESTICIDES shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other microorganisms on or in
living humans, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall
certify to the State Tax Commission that the contract price of the items has
been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by
the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor and, upon violation and
conviction for a second offense, the State Tax Commission shall revoke the
vendor’s sales tax permit; and
   (F)   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil, lubricants
and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm machinery
to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products produced from such
lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel must
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he or she is engaged in farming or ranching and that the
farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in farming or
ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor vehicles.
Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will only be
used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the State
Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant the full
benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor shall be
a misdemeanor and, upon violation and conviction for a second offense, the
State Tax Commission shall revoke the vendor’s sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
§ 3-2-13 EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term “manufacturing, plants” shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
   (B)   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same with
motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
   (C)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in the state, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in the state. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
MANUFACTURING PLANTS means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (D)   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise;
   (E)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in the state when sold
by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state; and
   (F)   Machinery, equipment, fuels and chemicals incorporated into and
directly used or consumed in the process of treatment to substantially reduce
the volume or harmful properties of controlled industrial waste at treatment
facilities specifically permitted pursuant to the Controlled Industrial Waste
Disposal Act and operated at the place of waste generation, or facilities
approved by the State Department of Health for the cleanup of a site of
contamination. The term controlled industrial waste may include low-level
radioactive waste for the purpose of this division (F).
(Prior Code, § 7-213)
§ 3-2-14 EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this chapter:
   (A)   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this division (A)(1), the term REORGANIZATION means
a statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the
property prior to the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the property
prior to the transfer; or
      (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
   (B)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 7-214)
§ 3-2-15 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Sales
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)
§ 3-2-16 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the Tax
Collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the Tax Collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)
§ 3-2-17 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)
§ 3-2-18 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in this town to collect from
the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer, or user, either
directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax
herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
   (D)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that willfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
§ 3-2-19 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code for
collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)
§ 3-2-20 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer
to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit
his or her claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-220)
§ 3-2-21 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-221)
§ 3-2-22 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-222)
§ 3-2-23 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in § 1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-223)
§ 3-2-24 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax as
if here set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-224)
§ 3-2-25 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-225)
§ 3-2-26 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-226)
CHAPTER 3: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
Section
   
3-3-1   Fee levied on telephone exchanges
   
3-3-2   Fee to be in lieu of other fees, taxes
§ 3-3-1 FEE LEVIED ON TELEPHONE EXCHANGES.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
town in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulations
and police control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone
company in the town. The annual inspection fee and charge shall be due and
payable to the town on or before May 1 of each year and shall be paid into and
appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 3-3-2 FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
CHAPTER 4: UTILITIES TAX
Section
   
3-4-1   Utility tax levied
   
3-4-2   Not to apply to franchises
   
3-4-3   Payment of tax
   
3-4-4   Failure to pay tax
   
3-4-5   Tax constitutes lien
§ 3-4-1 UTILITY TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas and electricity in the
town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or
excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 3-4-2 NOT TO APPLY TO FRANCHISES.
   The tax levied under this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations or corporations engaged in business of furnishing gas or
electricity within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any person,
firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
§ 3-4-3 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied under this chapter on gas and electric receipts shall be
levied for a term of not less than one year and shall be payable as required by
the Town Board of Trustees and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
§ 3-4-4 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-404)
§ 3-4-5 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-405)
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES GENERALLY
      
2.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
3.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
4.   RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 1: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
4-1-1   License fee levied on certain occupations
   
4-1-2   Ex-service persons
   
4-1-3   Separate licenses required
   
4-1-4   License to be displayed
   
4-1-5   License may be revoked
   
4-1-6   Transfer of license prohibited
   
4-1-7   Duplicate license
§ 4-1-1 LICENSE FEE LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A license fee is hereby levied on any person engaging in, exercising
or pursuing any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege in this
town, as required by the Town Board, for an annual fee as set by the Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution. A schedule of such fees shall be adopted or
amended by motion or resolution with a copy of the current schedule on file in
the Town Clerk’s office.
   (B)   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm
or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a
valid and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation is
a vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the Sales Tax Code of the
town and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant for a
license to the Town Clerk prior to issuance of the town license. All such
licenses shall expire on March 31 annually.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 4-1-2 EX-SERVICE PERSONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the town shall be deemed
to require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in a business, occupation or privilege when he or she is exempted
therefrom by statutes of the state or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
§ 4-1-3 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege for which a license is required, at or from more
than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more than
one such business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall pay the
fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
§ 4-1-4 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
shall display it to any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of
displaying such licenses provided above, when licenses are required for coin-
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to display the license as required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 4-1-5 LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise, or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, may be revoked
by the Board of Trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 9-105)
§ 4-1-6 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this town.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)
§ 4-1-7 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is
issued, the holder shall make, and file with the Town Clerk an affidavit that
the licensee has in fact lost or destroyed the license without any wrongful act
or connivance by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 9-107)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
4-2-1   Definitions
   
4-2-2   Occupation tax levied; license to be issued
   
4-2-3   Town Clerk to submit annual report
   
4-2-4   Wine, beer and mixed beverage sales for on-premises consumption
   
4-2-5   Retail package stores and retail stores selling wines or beer for off-
premises consumption
   
4-2-6   Regulations applicable to alcoholic beverages
   
4-2-7   Penalty; failure to comply
   
4-2-8   Revocation of license
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Word,
phrases and terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings prescribed by,
and be construed to conformity with, the definitions of § 506 of Title 37 of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act of 1959, force and effect as if the
definitions were set forth in full in this chapter, unless the context clearly
indicates a different meaning or construction.
   ABLE COMMISSION. The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine and includes every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings, but does not include
low point beer.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any
individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold
any license in accordance with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   BEER. Any beverage containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight and
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley,
or other grain, malt or similar products. Beer may or may not contain hops or
other vegetable products, and includes ale, stout, lager beer, porter and other
malt or brewed liquors but does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
   BREWER. Any person who produces beer in the state.
   BREWERY. A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous ta a small brewer, that prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
   CLASS B WHOLESALER. Any person doing any such acts or carrying on any such
business that would require such person to obtain a Class B wholesaler license.
   DISTILLER. Any person who produces spirits from any source or substance, or
any person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for distillation or for
the production of spirits (except a person making or using such material in the
authorized production of wine or beer, or the production of vinegar by
fermentation), or any person who by any process separates alcoholic spirits
from any fermented substance, or any person who, makes or keeps mash, wort or
wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
   LICENSEE. Any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licenses while in the
performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business or on
the licensed premises.
   MANUFACTURER. A brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of any
alcoholic beverage
   MIXED BEVERAGE. One or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or part
of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal size
for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a mixed
beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or special
event licenses.
   MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER. Any beverage, by whatever name designated, consisting
of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or fruit
flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than 0.5% of
alcohol measured by volume but not more than 7% alcohol by volume at 60°F, and
which is packaged in a container but not larger than 375 milliliters. Such
terms shall include, but not be limited to, the beverage popularly known as a
WINE COOLER.
   OCCUPATION. Used in connection with OCCUPATION TAX, means the sites occupied
as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers, Class B
wholesalers, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, beer and wine licensees,
bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event licensees.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any container of alcoholic beverage filled and stamped or
sealed by the manufacturer.
   PATRON. Any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a licensee or
who is not a licensee.
   PERSON. An individual, any type of partnership, corporation, association,
limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal structure of
any such business entity.
   PREMISES. The grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to the
grounds, including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect
control of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the
licensee and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered
by a licenses; provided, that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
      (1)   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages, by
private parties which are closed to the general public; or
      (2)   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages
provided by a private party. This exception shall in no way limit the
licensee’s concurrent responsibility for any violations of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act occurring on the licensed premises.
   PRIVATE EVENT. A social gathering or event attended by invited guest who
share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior established
relationship. For purposes of this definition advertisement for general public
attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not constitute a
PRIVATE EVENT.
   PUBLIC EVENT. Any event than can be attended by the general public.
   RECTIFIER. Any person who rectifies, purifies or refines spirits or wines by
any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or original
and continuous processing from mash, wort, wash or other substance, through
continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is completer)
and any person who, without rectifying, purifying or refining spirits, shall be
mixing ( except for immediate consumption on the premises where mixed) such
spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufacturers any spurious,
imitation or compound liquors for sale, under the name of whisky, brandy, rum,
gin, wine, spirits, cordials or any other name.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by
the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is prepared and
sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
   RETAIL BEER AND/OR WINE. Establishments that sell beer and/or wine for
consumption off the premises. Beer and/or win may be sold refrigerated or non-
refrigerated.
   RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES. An original package of any capacity
approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives.
   RETAIL SALESPERSON. A salesperson soliciting orders from and calling upon
retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her product.
   RETAILER. The holder of a package store licenses. Products are sold for
consumption off the premises.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchanger or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee.
   SPIRITS. Beverage other than win, beer or light beer, which contains more
than 0.5% alcohol measured by volume and obtained by distillation, whether or
not mixed with other substances in solution and includes those products known
as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and
similar compounds; but shall not include any alcohol liquid completely
denatured in accordance with the Acts of Congress and regulations pursuant
thereto.
   WHOLESALER. Includes any person doing such acts or carrying on any such
business or businesses that would require such person to obtain a wholesaler’s
license or licenses.
   WINE. Includes any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and
not more than 24% alcohol by volume at 60°F obtained by the fermentation of the
natural contents of fruits, vegetable, honey, milk or other products containing
sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added, and include vermouth and
sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
   W1NEMAKER. Any person who produces wine.
   WINEMAKER, OKLAHOMA. A business premises in the state licensed pursuant to
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act wherein wine is produced by the
licensee who must be a resident of the state. The wine product fermented in
said licensed premises shall be of grapes, berries and other fruits and
vegetables imported into this state and processed herein or shall be of grapes,
berries and other fruits and vegetables grown in the state.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-2 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED; LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupational tax on
every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages. Beginning January
10, 2018, the occupation tax will increase as indicated on the tax rates below.
Brewer                                        $1,250
Caterer                                       $1,000
Distiller                                     $3,125
On-premises mixed beverages, beer and/or wine $1,000
Oklahoma winemaker                            $100
Rectifier                                     $3,125
Retail beer                                   $500
Retail package store                          $500
Retail wine                                   $800
Special event                                 $100
Wholesaler                                    $3,500; Exempt $625
Winemaker                                     $625
 
   (B)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any business or occupation
herein listed shall pay the tax at the office of the Town Clerk on or before
the date upon which he or she enters upon such business or occupation. The
licensee shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before
payment of an occupation license will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee
shall pay the tax annually on or before January 31. The fee is non-refundable
and shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering the costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement relating to alcoholic
beverage establishments.
   (C)   If a brewer or a Class B wholesaler also holds a license from the
state to manufacture or wholesale malt beverage, then the occupation tax for
such brewer or Class B wholesaler shall be reduced by 75%.
   (D)   The occupation tax subject to this chapter shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation or business begins
operations.
   (E)   Upon payment of the occupation tax, the town shall issue a certificate
to the state licensee, which the licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on
premises wherein he or she carries on his or her business or occupation.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-3 TOWN CLERK TO SUBMIT ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk shall submit an annual report to the ABLE Commission,
covering the fiscal year, showing the number and class of license subject to
the occupation tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-4 WINE, BEER AND MIXED BEVERAGE SALES FOR ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall operate or maintain any business serving mixed beverages or
beer or wine without having previously paid the occupational tax as provided by
this chapter.
   (A)   Hours of operation. Establishments to which the on-premises mixed
beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or special
event occupational tax is applicable may sell, dispense, serve or allow to be
consumed any mixed beverages, beer or wine on the premises Monday through
Sunday 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   (B)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any establishment to which mixed
beverages, beer or wine is served to be consumed on-premises be located within
300 feet of any public or private school or church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
the public or private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the
premises of the place which has received a permit or which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Employment. No person shall employ any person under 18 years of age in
the selling of beer or wine or employ any person under 21 years of age in the
selling of mixed beverages, provided:
      (1)   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special
event, bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ server or
sales clerks who are at least 18 years of age, except persons under 21 years of
age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas; and
      (2)   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special
event or bottle club licensee may employee or hire musical bands who have
musicians who are under 18 years of age if each musician is either accompanied
by a parent or legal guardian or has on his or her person, to be made available
for inspections upon demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or law
enforcement officer, a written notarized affidavit from the parent or legal
guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated bar
or lounge areas.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-5 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES AND RETAIL STORES SELLING WINE OR BEER FOR OFF-
PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall operate, manage or work in any retail establishment that
sells, for off-premises consumption only, any type of alcoholic beverage
without having previously obtained an occupational license for that store as
provided in this chapter.
   (A)   Hours of operation. Retail package stores will be permitted to remain
open and operational on Monday through Saturday from 10:00 a.m. through 9:00
p.m. Further, no person shall open or operate a retail package store at any
time on the following days: Sunday; day of any general, primary, runoff primary
or special election; New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; Fourth of July; Labor Day;
Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Day. No wholesale dealer shall sell or deliver to
any retail package store on any of these days. Retail establishments selling
beer and/or wine may offer for retail sale on Monday through Sunday between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any retail package store and retail
stores selling beer and/or wine to be located within 300 feet of any public or
private school or church property primarily and regularly used for worship
services and religious activities. The distance indicated in this section shall
be measured from the nearest property line of the public or private school or
church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of the place which has
received a permit or which has been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Age requirement. Retail package stores shall not employ any person
under the age of 21 years of age in the selling of spirits. Retail stores
selling beer and/or wine shall not employee any person under the age of 18
years of age in the selling of beer or wine.
   (D)   Sale only in original package. Retail package stores and retail stores
selling beer and/or wine may sell alcoholic beverages only in retail containers
for consumption off the premises. Retail package stores and retail stores
selling beer and/or wine may sell beer and wine at refrigerated temperatures.
   (E)   Sale of other goods allowed. Retail package stores may sell anything
sold in a grocery or convenience store including items such as lottery tickets,
tobacco, Tylenol and the like. Sale of other goods shall not exceed 20% of
their gross monthly sales.
   (F)   Alcohol by volume. Retail beer license holders may sell beer up to
8.99% alcohol by volume (ABV). Retail wine license holders may sell wine up to
15% alcohol by volume (ABV).
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-6 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   Knowingly to sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is under the age of 21, to misrepresent his or her age in writing
or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of including any person
to sell him or her alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   To employ any person under the age of 21 years in the selling or
handling of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Who is a licensee or an agent or employee thereof to permit any person
under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within or loiter about a license
premises;
   (E)   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
   (F)   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
   (G)   To transport in any vehicle upon any street, alley or other public way
within the town any alcoholic beverage except in the original container, which
shall not have been opened and the seal of which shall not have been broken,
and from which the original cap or cork shall not have removed, unless the
opened container be in the truck or any closed compartment of other container
out of public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the
vehicle;
   (H)   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; and
   (I)   Who is the operator of a café, restaurant, club or any place of
recreation, to permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such a place of
business.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-7 PENALTY; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who engages in any business, profession,
trade or occupation, or exercises any privilege, for which a license or permit
is required by this chapter without a valid license or permit as hereby
required, or who otherwise violates any provisions of this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, plus court costs and penalties, if any. Each day of such violation shall
constitute a separate offense. The ABLE Commission will immediately be
contacted as well.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 4-2-8 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Town Court Clerk shall have the power to revoke any license granted
hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license holder.
(Ord. 3-12-01072019, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
4-3-1   Going upon private residences, prohibited
   
4-3-2   License required
   
4-3-3   Definitions
   
4-3-4   Application
   
4-3-5   Investigation and issuance
   
4-3-6   Bond
   
4-3-7   Service of process
   
4-3-8   Exhibition of license
   
4-3-9   Fees
   
4-3-10   Transfer
   
4-3-11   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
4-3-12   Duty of police to enforce
   
4-3-13   Records
   
4-3-14   Revocation of license
   
4-3-15   Appeal
   
4-3-16   Expiration of license
   
4-3-17   Penalty
§ 4-3-1 GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCES, PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or
owners, occupant or occupants of the private residence, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or for the
purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance, and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each uninvited visitation of private residences in the town for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise or
for the purpose of disposing of or hawking the same shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
§ 4-3-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant or itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor as defined in §
4-3-3 to engage in such business within the town without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)
§ 4-2-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or
ITINERANT VENDOR is defined as any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)
§ 4-2-4 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license under this chapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant, if
an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the Town Clerk, showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant’s business during the time that is proposed that it
will be carried on in the town;
   (B)   The local address or addresses of such person or persons while engaged
in such business;
   (C)   The permanent address or addresses of such person or persons;
   (D)   The capacity in which such person or persons will act (that is,
whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise);
   (E)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose
account the business will be carried on, if any;
   (F)   If a corporation, under the laws of what state the same is
incorporated;
   (G)   The fingerprints of the persons conducting applicant’s business, or in
lieu thereof, at least three letters of recommendation from reliable persons in
this county, certifying as to the applicant’s good character and business
responsibility, or other evidence which establishes to the satisfaction of the
Mayor the good character and business responsibility of such person or persons;
   (H)   The place or places in the town where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
   (I)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant where applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the
application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted;
   (J)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares
or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant in the town, the
invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise, whether the
same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in
possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and by
taking orders for future delivery; where the goods or property proposed to be
sold are manufactured or produced and where such goods or products are located
at the time the application is filed;
   (K)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the
Town Clerk, copies of all the advertising whether by handbills, circular,
newspaper advertising or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as
exhibits thereto;
   (L)   Whether or not the person or persons conducting the applicant’s
business have been convicted of a felony, the nature of such offense and the
punishment assessed therefor;
   (M)   Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative;
   (N)   A copy of the current and valid state sales tax permit in the name of
the applicant; and
   (O)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant’s
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the Town Clerk may
deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the
public good.
(Prior Code, § 9-204)
§ 4-3-5 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Town Clerk shall cause such
investigation of such person’s or persons’ business responsibility or moral
character to be made as he or she deems necessary to the protection of the
public good. If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character
and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and
business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the Town Clerk shall so certify
in writing, and a license shall be issued by the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk
shall keep a full record in his or her office of all licenses issued. Such
license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same is issued,
the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the
license fee paid, the expiration date of the license, the place where the
business may be carried on under the license and the name or names of the
person or persons authorized to carry on the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-205)
§ 4-3-6 BOND.
   (A)   Before any license, as provided by this chapter, shall be issued for
engaging in a transient or itinerant business in the town, a bond running to
the town in the sum of $1,000 executed by the applicant, as principal, and two
sureties, upon which service of process may be made in the state; the bond to
be approved by the Town Attorney; conditioned that the applicant shall comply
fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the town and the statutes
of the state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any
violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any person or
persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced
on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether the
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whatsoever printed or circulated
with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
   (B)   Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the town to the use
of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the Town Attorney, both
as to form, and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9-206)
§ 4-3-7 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in
business as an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, in the town, such
applicant shall file with the Town Clerk an instrument nominating and
appointing the Town Clerk, or the person performing the duties of such
position, his or her true and lawful agent with full power and authority to
acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the applicant in
respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted
under the license and the bond given as required by §
4-3-5, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof, which the instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that
the applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon the agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to
be as valid as if personally served upon the person or persons applying for the
license under this chapter, according to the law of this or any other state,
and waiving all claim or right error by reason of such acknowledgment of
service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the Town
Clerk, as herein provided, the Town Clerk shall send to the licensee at his or
her last known address, by registered mail, a copy of the process.
(Prior Code, § 9-207)
§ 4-3-8 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in
the place of business named therein.
   (B)   In the event that such person or persons applying for the license
shall desire to do business in more than one place within the town, separate
licenses may be issued for each place of business and shall be posted
conspicuously in each place of business.
(Prior Code, § 9-208)
§ 4-3-9 FEES.
   (A)   Licensees under this chapter shall pay a fee as set by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Every person conducting a business licensed under this chapter shall,
on the first business day of each week, and upon discontinuance of business in
the town present to the Clerk of the town, at his or her office, a verified
statement showing the total sales made during the preceding week. The Clerk and
any other officer designated by him or her shall have power and authority to
enter any store, building or any other place in which such temporary business
may be conducted at any time during business hours for ascertaining the amount
of sales made and shall at all times have access to the books of such business.
(Prior Code, § 9-209)
§ 4-3-10 TRANSFER.
   No license shall be transferred without written consent from the Mayor as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the Town Clerk
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
(Prior Code, § 9-210)
§ 4-3-11 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No licensee under this chapter, nor anyone in his or her behalf shall shout,
make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or buzzer any other sound device
including any loud speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets,
alleys, parks or other public places of the town or upon any private premises
in the town where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise which such license proposes to sell.
(Prior Code, § 9-211)
§ 4-3-12 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It is the duty of the police officers of the town to examine all places of
business and persons in their respective territories subject to the provisions
of this chapter, to determine if this chapter has been complied with and to
enforce the provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating
the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-212)
§ 4-3-13 RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of licensee,
together with a license number, with the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police
shall report to the Chief Clerk any complaints against any person licensed
under the provisions of this chapter and any conviction for violation of this
chapter; the Town Clerk shall keep a record of all such licenses and of such
complaints and violations.
(Prior Code, § 9-213)
§ 4-3-14 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by the Mayor of the town after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at his or her last known address, at least five days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 9-214)
§ 4-3-15 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Town Clerk in regard to the
denial of application for license as provided for in §
4-2-4 or in connection with the revocation of a license as provided for in, §
4-3-13, shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees of the town.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees within 14 days
after notice of the decision by the Town Clerk has been mailed to such person’s
last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the
appeal. The Board of Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the
same manner as provided in §
4-3-13 for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of this Board of Trustees
on such appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 9-215)
§ 4-3-16 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire 90
days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(Prior Code, § 9-216)
§ 4-3-17 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 9-217)
CHAPTER 4: RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
4-4-1   Definition
   
4-4-2   Permit requirements
   
4-4-3   Location restrictions
   
4-4-4   Conditions of operation
   
4-4-5   Commercial marijuana growing facilities
   
4-4-6   Wholesale marijuana facilities
   
4-4-7   Marijuana storage facilities
   
4-4-8   Marijuana growing facilities for personal use
   
4-4-9   Permit inspections and other requirements
§ 4-4-1   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS. Any retail marijuana establishment licensed
by the state.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-2 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to
obtain a retail marijuana establishment permit from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The retail marijuana establishment permit fee shall be $2,500 per
year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering cost related
to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of retail marijuana
establishments.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-3 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of a
private or public preschool, or K-12 school entrance.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by the same calculation measurements used by State
Medical Marijuana Association.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-4 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   (B)   The retail establishment must collect and remit to the proper
authority the town sales tax subject to all municipal sales tax rates.
   (C)   The hours of operation shall be the same as defined by the State
Medical Marijuana Association.
   (D)   Any violations of the section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   (E)   It is intent of the town that nothing in the retail marijuana
establishment ordinance be construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-5 COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   Commercial marijuana growing facilities are hereby prohibited within the
municipal boundaries.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-6 WHOLESALE MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   Wholesale marijuana facilities are hereby prohibited within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-7 MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Marijuana storage facilities other than in a retail outlet are hereby
prohibited within the municipal boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-8 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL USE.
   (A)   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
are required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit fee shall
be $50 per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
cost related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of
marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use.
   (C)   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failure to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   (E)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (F)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (G)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane and the like) or CO2 and ozone generators in
the growing area is prohibited.
   (H)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, order or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (I)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown shall always remain a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   (J)   If the residence is rented consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in a residence.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
§ 4-4-9 PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection by
an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Municipal Inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   (E)   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-3-2019)
TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
2.   NUISANCES
      
3.   FOOD REGULATIONS
      
4.   WEEDS AND TRASH
      
5.   FIREWORKS SALE AND DISCHARGE
      
6.   JUNKED, WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-1-1   County Health Department designated to enforce health ordinances
   
5-1-2   Obstructing Health Officer
   
5-1-3   Quarantine; violations
   
5-1-4   Penalty
§ 5-1-1 COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE HEALTH
ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Anywhere in this chapter where the words HEALTH OFFICER are used, it
shall be construed to mean the Director of the County Health Department or his
or her duly designated representative.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and Town Board of Trustees
to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of this town as set out in
this section and any such decisions rendered under this section shall be
subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 5-1-2 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
this town.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
§ 5-1-3 QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-503)
§ 5-1-4 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §1-4-1. In addition
thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-504)
CHAPTER 2: NUISANCES
Section
   
5-2-1   Nuisance defined; public nuisances; private nuisances
   
5-2-2   Persons responsible
   
5-2-3   Time does not legalize
   
5-2-4   Remedies against public nuisances
   
5-2-5   Remedies against private nuisances
   
5-2-6   Town has power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
5-2-7   Certain public nuisances in the town defined
   
5-2-8   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
5-2-9   Abatement by suit in District Court
   
5-2-10   Nuisance unlawful
   
5-2-11   Health nuisances; abatement
   
5-2-12   Procedure cumulative
§ 5-2-1 NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   (A)   A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or
is any thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (B)   A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (C)   Every nuisance not included in division (B) above is a private
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 5-2-2 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 5-2-3 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 5-2-4 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)
§ 5-2-5 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; or
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 5-2-6 TOWN HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its, corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the town
has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 5-2-7 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE TOWN DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinance of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
or ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      (16)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (19)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; or
      (20)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein or by reason of lack of sanitation, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
§ 5-2-8 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the Town
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the Town Board of Trustees, a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town of law,
and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself or
herself, the Health Officer and Board of Trustees or any resident or residents
of the town may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the
Board.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Town Board shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses,
books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or
have it abated, the Town Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such
notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by
mail or by service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known;
but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall
be published in a paper of general circulation within the town.
   (D)   If the Board finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall direct
the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance to abate it
within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the
person or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized
by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified time, the Board shall
direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary
abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The Town Clerk shall
send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost
shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts to the town may
be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 5-2-9 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance the
town may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 5-2-10 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lease or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 5-2-11 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the Health Officer
shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense, any source of
filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or
rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other
condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or within
such other time as may be in writing and may be served personally on the owner
or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the Health Officer
or by a police officer or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of
abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the
premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is
unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy
thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper
having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the Town Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he or she is a user of water from the town water system or such other utility
service. The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it
is added and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same regulations
relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If such owner or
occupant is not a user of any town utility service, such cost, after
certification to the Town Clerk, may be collected in any manner in which any
other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
§ 5-2-12 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
CHAPTER 3: FOOD REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-3-1   Food service; regulations
   
5-3-2   Violation; penalty
§ 5-3-1 FOOD SERVICE; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The latest edition of the Oklahoma State Department of Health Rules
and Regulations Pertaining to Food Establishments is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk. The rules and
regulations shall govern the definitions; inspection of food service
establishments; the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate
food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or
misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in §
1-4-1. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may be enjoined
from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 5-3-2 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
CHAPTER 4: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
5-4-1   General provisions
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 5-4-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner, or any other person in possession or
control of any lot, tract or parcel of land situated wholly or in part within
the corporate limits of the town to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or
accumulate upon such premises and it is the duty of such owner to remove or
destroy any such trash or weeds.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $250. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such under this section.
   (D)   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of
trash or growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the Code
Enforcement Officer or designated officer.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer or designated officer may issue a
notice to the person responsible for the property to clean and mow said
property.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice the owner or person responsible for the
yard shall have 14 days to clean, mow and remove all trash or rubbish from the
yard.
      (3)   If, the owner has not complied with the notice within the 14 days,
then the town will be allowed to clean and dispose of any and all trash. Upon
completion of the clean up of the property by town employees or contracted
labor, the Clerk shall prepare a report on the cost thereof. Such report may be
itemized as to follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and
supplies, cost of notice and other allowable costs. The Clerk shall forward a
statement and demand payment of the total cost by mail to the owner of the
property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the tax office of the
county.
      (4)   If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not 30
days from the date of mailing the notice hereof, the costs will be forwarded to
the County Clerk for collection.
   (E)   If the town causes property within the town to be cleaned of trash and
weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided
for in this section, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or
grass growth on the property occurring within a six-month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the
town shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
   (F)   This section is being adopted by the Town Council that perceives this
as an immediate health hazard and this section shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and publication.
(Ord. 1-3-2011-6-1, passed 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 5: FIREWORKS SALE AND DISCHARGE
Section
   
5-5-1   Fireworks prohibited
§ 5-5-1 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the meaning
prescribed by state law, 68 O.S. § 1622.
   (B)   The purchase, sale, discharge, firing or possession of fireworks
within the corporate limits of the town is hereby prohibited, except for period
from July 3 to July 5 annually.
   (C)   State laws and Town Fire Code shall be fully applicable in the town
and enforceable as offenses against the town.
   (D)   Public displays as authorized by the town’s Fire Code may be conducted
after issuance of a permit for the display by the town. Application for permit
shall be made at least ten days prior to the display and shall provide such
information as the town may require on location, date, time, supervision, type
fireworks and appropriate state permits.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
CHAPTER 6: JUNKED, WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
5-6-1   Nuisance
   
5-6-2   Definitions
   
5-6-3   Storing, parking or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles
prohibited; declared a nuisance; exceptions
   
5-6-4   Penalty
   
5-6-5   Unlicensed vehicles
§ 5-6-1 NUISANCES.
   Motor vehicles which are abandoned, dismantled, partially dismantled,
wrecked, junked, inoperative or discarded, or left about the town in places
other than authorized junk yards or other areas authorized by the Town Board
and which tend to do any one or more of the following:
   (A)   Impede traffic in the streets;
   (B)   Reduce the value of private property;
   (C)   Create fire hazards;
   (D)   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
   (E)   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare of the residents of the town, are hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 5-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a current motor vehicle
safety inspection certificate, and the condition of which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway which shall include the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way publicly owned or maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned
property or facility.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)
§ 5-6-3 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH MOTOR VEHICLES
PROHIBITED; DECLARED A NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any junk motor vehicle or vehicle of any kind which is in an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or partially dismantled
condition whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within
the town for a period of time in excess of ten days.
   (B)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked
or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public property
is hereby declared a public offense and misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any such vehicle on private property shall be removed by the town or
its agent after at least ten days’ notice is given by posting notice on the
vehicle and any other notice required by law. Any such vehicle on public
property shall be removed by the town or its agent in accordance with Title 7,
Chapter 1 of this code. The costs of removal and storage shall be charged to
the owner of the vehicle and constitute a lien against the vehicle.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within a building
on private property or to any vehicle held, stored or parked in connection with
a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the town and on property operated in
the appropriate business zone, pursuant to zoning laws of the town, nor shall
this section apply to a town-owned vehicle in an appropriate storage place
maintained in a lawful place by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-403)
§ 5-6-4 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be an offense or
misdemeanor thereby, is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 5-6-5 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-204)
TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
3.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
4.   OFFENSES AND CRIMES
      
5.   MINORS
      
6.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
7.   FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Generally
   
6-1-1   Police Department created; Chief
   
6-1-2   Duties
   
6-1-3   Police officers
   
6-1-4   Assistance to another community
   
6-1-5   Request must be in writing
   
6-1-6   Reimbursement required
   
6-1-7   Contract required, except in public emergency
   
6-1-8   Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund
Unclaimed Property
   
6-1-20   Complete record required
   
6-1-21   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
6-1-22   Property found by a private person
   
6-1-23   Recovery by owner
GENERALLY
§ 6-1-1 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees and
removable by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The Chief of Police is an officer
of the town, and has supervision and control of the Police Department. All
police officers are officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
§ 6-1-2 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The Police Department has
charge of and operates the town jail; however, the Board of Trustees may
arrange with the Board of County Commissioners for use of the county jail.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 6-1-3 POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval by the Board of
Trustees. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required of
them by the Chief of Police, town ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other action required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
§ 6-1-4 ASSISTANCE TO ANOTHER COMMUNITY.
   Approval is hereby given for service of members of the regular Police
Department of this town as police officers of any other town, city or county,
in an emergency situation, in the state not more than 45 miles distance from
the town, when such service is requested by the Mayor or Chief of Police of the
city or town, or Sheriff of the county, in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 13-304)
§ 6-1-5 REQUEST MUST BE IN WRITING.
   Requests for service under § 6-1-4 shall be made by writing or by telephone,
or other means of communication, to the Chief of Police of this town, who, if
he or she determines that the request can be granted consistently with the
continuance of the proper police protection to the inhabitants of this town,
shall furnish the number of officers requested and arrange for their
transportation to the requesting municipality or county.
(Prior Code, § 13-305)
§ 6-1-6 REIMBURSEMENT REQUIRED.
   Any municipality or county requesting and receiving service by members of
the Police Department of this town may reimburse this town for the cost of the
transportation to and from such municipality of the officers so serving and the
pro rata cost of their salaries, insurance and other benefits attributable to
their service in such municipality or county.
(Prior Code, § 13-306)
§ 6-1-7 CONTRACT REQUIRED, EXCEPT IN PUBLIC EMERGENCY.
   Except in cases of extreme public emergency, no services shall be rendered
hereunder to any municipality or county unless such service is in accordance
with the terms of §§ 6-1-5 through 6-1-7. The town’s Chief of Police hereby is
authorized to negotiate and execute contracts with the proper contracting
officers of such municipalities or counties, which shall be on a reciprocal
basis, thereby securing to this town the service of members of the Police
Departments of such municipalities or counties should an emergency arise
necessitating such service here. All such contracts shall be submitted to the
Town Board of Trustees for approval before effective.
(Prior Code, § 13-307)
§ 6-1-8 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   Beginning October 1, 1983, a Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund is
created for the purpose of reimbursing the State Law Enforcement Officers
Training Fund for certain training received by the town law enforcement
officials.
   (B)   Beginning October 1, 1983, for every fine of $10 or more collected by
the Municipal Court of the town, $2 shall be set aside for the Law Enforcement
Officers Training Fund.
   (C)   The Town Clerk beginning January 1, 1984, and every quarter thereafter
shall deposit the monies set aside from the previous quarter into the State Law
Enforcement Training Fund.
   (D)   It being necessary for the public health and the safety of the
residents of the town, an emergency is hereby declared to exist and the section
shall take effect from and after the date of the passage thereof.
(Ord. 156, passed 11-7-1983)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 6-1-20 COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
(Prior Code, § 13-501)
§ 6-1-21 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the Chief of Police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him or her satisfactorily established, for a period of more than 30 days,
shall be sold, or disposed of in the manner required by law, except such
personal property, as in the opinion of the Mayor, can be more advantageously
used by some department or office of the town government.
(Prior Code, § 13-502)
§ 6-1-22 PROPERTY FOUND BY A PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property in the manner required by law as if it had been
found by a public official or employee, or on instruction by the Town Manager
deliver it to some department or office of the town government for its use.
(Prior Code, § 13-503)
§ 6-1-23 RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-504)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Generally
   
6-2-1   Fire Department
   
6-2-2   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
6-2-3   Duties of the Assistant Chief
   
6-2-4   Company officers
   
6-2-5   Secretary-Treasurer
   
6-2-6   New members
   
6-2-7   Bylaws
   
6-2-8   Rules and regulations
   
6-2-9   Use of fire equipment; inventory and repair
   
6-2-10   Contracts authorized outside town limits
   
6-2-11   Contract terms, fees for service
   
6-2-12   Authority to answer calls
   
6-2-13   Firefighters serving in regular line of duty
   
6-2-14   Department considered agent of state
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund
   
6-2-25   State pension system adopted
   
6-2-26   Fund to be operated in accordance with law
   
6-2-27   Contributions to fund
GENERALLY
§ 6-2-1 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which shall be the Chief
of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The term VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER means one who is enrolled as a member
of the Fire Department of the town and who serves in that capacity without
receiving a regular salary. The size of the Volunteer Fire Department of the
town shall be composed of not less than six, nor more than 20 members.
   (C)   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others: to extinguish
fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer
first aid to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in
case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise
provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and
safety of persons from fire in public and private buildings.
(Prior Code, § 13-201)
§ 6-2-2 DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the administrative head of the Department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief shall have the following powers and duties, and he or she
may assign duties to other members of the Department.
      (1)   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her. He or she shall have
supervision and control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and
control of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
      (3)   The Chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      (4)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      (5)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
      (6)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case.
      (7)   The Chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
town at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found.
      (8)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
Department and shall make reports to the Board of Trustees as it may require.
The Chief shall keep the Board of Trustees informed regarding the Fire
Department and its needs.
(Prior Code, § 13-202)
§ 6-2-3 DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command the
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief. The Assistant Chief shall be elected
from among the members of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-203)
§ 6-2-4 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based upon the following
criteria:
   (A)   Knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Leadership ability; and
   (C)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13-204)
§ 6-2-5 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be a
Secretary-Treasurer.
   (B)   His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 13-205)
§ 6-2-6 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   New members of the Volunteer Department shall be recommended by the
Chief. New members shall be on probation for one year after their appointment.
   (B)   Upon completion of their probationary period, new members must be
approved by the majority of the other members of the Fire Department and the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-206)
§ 6-2-7 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month.
   (D)   Any member having two unexcused absences in succession or three
unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from the Fire
Department rolls.
   (E)   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the Department will be dropped.
   (G)   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony; or
      (6)   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-207)
§ 6-2-8 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 13-208)
§ 6-2-9 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away or
conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-209)
§ 6-2-10 CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13-210)
§ 6-2-11 CONTRACT TERMS, FEES FOR SERVICE.
   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation or association, for outside aid, or mutual aid for fire
protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation or association, or political subdivision to the town for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the Board of Trustees.
All moneys received from the calls shall go into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 13-211)
§ 6-2-12 AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS.
   The Fire Department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to answer
all outside calls outside the corporate town limits in the discretion of the
Fire Chief. The Fire Department may not answer such outside calls if, in the
opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another
fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other
physical conditions.
(Prior Code, § 13-212)
§ 6-2-13 FIREFIGHTERS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY.
   All volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department of the town attending and
serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of
the town, as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular
line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of
the town. The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund in the same manner as if the firefighting
or fire prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the town.
Compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13-213)
§ 6-2-14 DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE.
   The Fire Department of the town answering any fire alarm, or call, or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
town shall be considered as an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and the municipality shall not be liable in damages
for any act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning
from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by
virtue of §§
6-2-10 through
6-2-14.
(Prior Code, § 13-214)
FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND
§ 6-2-25 STATE PENSION SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the provisions of state law governing the State
Firefighters Relief and Pension System and amendments thereto for the purpose
of providing firefighters of the town with a retirement program.
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
§ 6-2-26 FUND TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW.
   The Firemen’s Relief and Pension Fund shall be operated in accordance with
state law relating to the fund, and pensions and other benefits shall be paid
as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
§ 6-2-27 CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the Fire Department the appropriate amounts of money as established
and required by state law as contribution to the Firefighters Pension Fund.
However, if the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its paid
members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts authorized
by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts approved by the
majority vote. The Treasurer of the town shall deposit monthly in the State
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted pursuant to this
division (A). Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a Fire
Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The deductions
shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to ascertain
the exact amount which he or she is contributing.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the State Firefighters
Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money as established and required
by state law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
   (C)   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the Town Treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board
the amounts of money as established and required by state law. These amounts
may be revised according to actual studies and amounts as set by the State
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
   (D)   All assets of the Town Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund shall
be transferred to the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board. Assets
shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such other
specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-503)
CHAPTER 3: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
6-3-1   Purpose of civil defense organization
   
6-3-2   Department established
   
6-3-3   Duties of Director
   
6-3-4   Powers of Director in emergencies
   
6-3-5   Compensation of members
§ 6-3-1 PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   A civil defense organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town. The duties of the civil defense
organization are the protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of
property and property rights, both private and public, and performance of all
functions necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-401)
§ 6-3-2 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Civil Defense, which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Civil Defense who shall be appointed and may be the
Chief of Police, removed with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   (B)   A Civil Defense Advisory Committee. This Committee shall consist of
the Mayor as Chairperson and five members appointed by the Mayor and serving at
his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members a Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the
Mayor and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or
requested by the Mayor or the Director of Civil Defense.
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 6-3-3 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the Department
of the Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil
defense program of the town. He or she shall serve without compensation but may
be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties. It
shall be the duty of the Director of Civil Defense as soon as practicable after
his or her appointment to perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set
forth in this chapter and he or she shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
Chairperson or Chief Officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such
an organization. He or she shall have further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and the federal government. The Director of Civil Defense
is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather information and
keep written record thereof to govern the functions of the Civil Defense
Organization.
(Prior Code, § 13-403)
§ 6-3-4 POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense after due authorization from the
Mayor shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or she shall
cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies of
civil defense organizations. If required by the Mayor, the Director shall have
control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of
alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   The Director of Civil Defense and other members of the Civil Defense
Organization created by him or her shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town during the period of
emergency and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 6-3-5 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the Civil Defense Organization created in this chapter shall
serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal or
bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the
line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 13-405)
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES AND CRIMES
Section
Offenses in General
   
6-4-1   Attempts to commit an offense
   
6-4-2   Aiding in an offense
   
6-4-3   State criminal laws adopted by reference
   
6-4-4   General penalties
Offenses Against Property
   
6-4-15   Placing signs on property of another
   
6-4-16   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
6-4-17   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
6-4-18   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
6-4-19   Illegal entrance
   
6-4-20   Throwing advertisement on street prohibited
   
6-4-21   Throwing injurious substances
   
6-4-22   Public streets and trees
   
6-4-23   Trespass prohibited
   
6-4-24   Interference with fire hydrants
Offenses Against the Public and Persons
   
6-4-35   Disturbing the peace
   
6-4-36   Insulting signs; literature or language
   
6-4-37   Storing or keeping explosives; nitroglycerine prohibited
   
6-4-38   Discharging firearms; exceptions
   
6-4-39   Loud noise or music prohibited; amplified sound
   
6-4-40   Assault and battery
Offenses Against Health, Welfare and Morals
   
6-4-55   Prostitution
   
6-4-56   Disorderly house
   
6-4-57   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house
   
6-4-58   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house
   
6-4-59   Residents and visitors to disorderly house
   
6-4-60   Definitions, obscenity regulations
   
6-4-61   Prohibited obscene conduct
   
6-4-62   Vagrancy defined for specific acts, offenses
   
6-4-63   Sleeping in public
   
6-4-64   Begging prohibited
   
6-4-65   Gambling prohibited
   
6-4-66   Being about place where gambling is going on
   
6-4-67   Harmful deception
   
6-4-68   False or bogus checks
   
6-4-69   Swindling unlawful
   
6-4-70   Sale, possession or use of intoxicants
Offenses Against Public Authority
   
6-4-85   Resisting an officer
   
6-4-86   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
6-4-87   Assault or battery upon police or other law officer
   
6-4-88   Rescuing prisoners
   
6-4-89   Escape of prisoners
   
6-4-90   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
6-4-91   False alarms
   
6-4-92   False representation to an officer
   
6-4-93   Removal of barricades
   
6-4-94   Resisting public officials
   
6-4-95   Eluding police officer
OFFENSES IN GENERAL
§ 6-4-1 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 6-4-2 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)
§ 6-4-3 STATE CRIMINAL LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All misdemeanor criminal offenses codified in 21 O.S. and 63 O.S. are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable in the town as fully
as if set out at length herein, punishable as provided in §
1-4-1. A copy of such laws are on file in the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)
§ 6-4-4 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   Any violation of the provisions of this part is punishable as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 6-4-15 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-204)
§ 6-4-16 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another (whether public or private), except
in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-205)
§ 6-4-17 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other
way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to
damage, molest, tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other
part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 10-206)
§ 6-4-18 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-207)
§ 6-4-19 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-208)
§ 6-4-20 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-209)
§ 6-4-21 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-210)
§ 6-4-22 PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the town;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town, or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town Inspector so to do.
   (B)   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-212)
§ 6-4-23 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. The property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS
shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of
the premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner of by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
division (A).
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
(Prior Code, § 10-213)
§ 6-4-24 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any
other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10-215)
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC AND PERSONS
§ 6-4-35 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 6-4-36 INSULTING SIGNS; LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
§ 6-4-37 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES; NITROGLYCERINE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
and ordinance of the town for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such
items.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
§ 6-4-38 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm, in the town except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)
§ 6-4-39 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the town by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loud speaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise
or words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from
playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. However, it is
permitted to emit loud music with or without a loud speaker, on Friday from 12:
00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and Saturday from 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Exceptions can
be made when brought before the Board of Trustees and approved.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) (Am. Ord. passed 8-1-2022)
§ 6-4-40 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   An assault is any intentional, willful or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A battery is any intentional, willful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   (C)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
§ 6-4-55 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
§ 6-4-56 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
   (A)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled dangerous
substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is declared
unlawful by state statute;
   (B)   The violation of any of the ordinances of this town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
   (C)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
   (D)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
§ 6-4-57 MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
   (B)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sub-lease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
§ 6-4-59 RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-409)
§ 6-4-60 DEFINITIONS, OBSCENITY REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
   OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      (1)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e. shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity
or excretion;
      (2)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
      (3)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bar tending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
§ 6-4-61 PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
      (2)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      (3)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      (4)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         (a)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         (b)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         (c)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         (d)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   (B)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of §§
6-4-59 and
6-4-60 shall not apply to a projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher or
cashier provided such person has no financial interest in the motion picture
theater so long as that person is not acting as director or manager of the
theater.
(Prior Code, § 10-412)
§ 6-4-62 VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR SPECIFIC ACTS, OFFENSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 10-413)
§ 6-4-63 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property of
another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge
of such place.
(Prior Code, § 10-415)
§ 6-4-64 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 10-416)
§ 6-4-65 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his or her or its premises, houses, lot or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value.
(Prior Code, § 10-417)
§ 6-4-66 BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-418)
§ 6-4-67 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 10-419)
§ 6-4-68 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property
or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false or bogus
check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious
coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for
money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing,
issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the
knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with, such bank or other
depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within 30 after same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 10-420)
§ 6-4-69 SWINDLING UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
§ 6-4-70 SALE, POSSESSION OR USE OF INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to give, barter or
sell within the town limits:
      (1)   Salviadivinorum or salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hyroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10510a- tetrahydoben2o[c]chromen-1-o1, some trade or other names: HU-210;
      (3)   1-Pentyl-3-(1 naphthoyl) indole-some trade or other names: JWH-018
spice;
      (4)   1-Butyl-3-(1 naphthoyl) indole-some trade or other names: JWH-073;
      (5)   N-benzylpiperazine-some other trade names: BZP;
      (6)   1-(3-[txifLuoromethylphenyl]) piperazine-some trade or other names:
TFMPP; or
      (7)   Any similar substance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase or attempt to
purchase, within the town limits:
      (1)   Salviadivinorum or salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   (6aR,10aR)-9-{'{'}h.yroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)-6a,7,10,10a -tetrahydobenzo[c]chromen-l-ol some trade or other names: HU-
210;
      (3)   1-Pentyl-3-(1 naphthoyl) indole-some trade or other names: JWH-018
spice;
      (4)   l-Butyl-3-(1 naphthoyl) indole-some trade or other names: JWH-073;
      (5)   N-benzylpiperazine-some other trade names: BZP;
      (6)   1-(3-[trirluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine-some trade or other names:
TFMPP; or
      (7)   Any similar substance.
   (C)   Any of the aforementioned substances found in the possession may be
confiscated and destroyed by law enforcement officials.
   (D)   It is not an offense under division (B) above if:
      (1)   Any person was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of
the town to enforce or ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of
the aforementioned substance; or
      (2)   The person was acting as an agent of a retail provider within the
scope of employment.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly breathe, inhale or drink
any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this section, or a similar
substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication,
stupefication, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior or in any manner,
changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or mental process.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly, within the town limits,
sell, offer for sale, deliver, give or possess with the intent to sell, deliver
or give to any other person any compound, liquid or chemical set forth herein,
or other substance that will induce a condition of intoxication through
breathing or inhalation if he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the
compound, liquid or chemical sold, offered for sale, delivered, given or
possessed with the intent to sell, or give will be used for the purpose of
violating this section.
   (G)   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
   (H)   Any person found to be in violation of this section will be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $435.
   (I)   This section is being adopted by the Town Council that perceives this
as an immediate health hazard and this section shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and publication.
(Ord. 4-10-404A, passed 1-3-2011)
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
§ 6-4-85 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official
duties within the limits of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   The words OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make his
or her identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)
§ 6-4-86 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-602)
§ 6-4-87 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-603)
§ 6-4-88 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the
town jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-604)
§ 6-4-89 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-605)
§ 6-4-90 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-606)
§ 6-4-91 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 10-607)
§ 6-4-92 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-608)
§ 6-4-93 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 10-609)
§ 6-4-94 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-610)
§ 6-4-95 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police car, directing the
operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, and who willfully increases his
or her speed or extinguishes his or her lights in an attempt to elude such
police officer, or who does elude such police officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-611)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
   
6-5-1   Curfew
   
6-5-2   Youth nicotine addiction prevention
§ 6-5-1 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person or other than a parent who has legal guardianship of
a minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 16.
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play in a
public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the town between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Friday and Saturday under the age of 18 unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) below.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
town between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above. The
provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the Town Police Department.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees may permit by resolution or motion
procedures for advance notice or registration with the town of special events
or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other organizations which
require minors to be out at a later time. The Town Board of Trustees may also
prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-414) (Ord. passed 9-4-2001)
§ 6-5-2 YOUTH NICOTINE ADDICTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Findings and intent. 
      (1)   The Town Council finds that youth addiction to tobacco products is
a public health problem with grave health consequences. In recognition that
almost 90% of all smokers begin smoking by the age of 18, action is needed to
curtail the easy access of minors to cigarettes and other addictive tobacco
products. Furthermore, the Town Council finds that the state legislature has
limited the powers granted to local governments to address the problem of youth
access to tobacco.
      (2)   Therefore, the intent of this section is to:
         (a)   Implement the strictest and most enforceable system allowed
under state law to prevent the illegal sale of cigarettes and other tobacco
products to minors;
         (b)   Periodically amend and update this chapter as necessary to best
utilize any applicable powers which may be returned to state municipalities in
the future; and
         (c)   Educate, encourage and assist underage tobacco users in ceasing
all use of addictive tobacco products, preferably before daily use of such
products is initiated.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust
or association, however formed.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 18
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
      SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
   (C)   Distribution and sales to minors prohibited; identification required;
defense; fines.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in any manner any
tobacco product to another person who is under 18 years of age, or to purchase
in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person.
      (2)   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to
handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the employee’s
duties.
      (3)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under 18 years of age.
      (4)   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient
who is not under 18 years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof of
age shall not constitute a violation of this section.
      (5)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine.
      (6)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age, shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section.
      (7)   For purposes of determining the liability of a person controlling
franchises or business operations in multiple locations for any violation of
divisions (A) or (B) above, each individual franchise or business location
shall be deemed a separate entity.
      (8)   Any person who shall violate divisions (A) or (B) above shall be
guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more than $100 for the
first offense within a one-year period and $200 for the second offense or
subsequent offense within a one-year period.
      (9)   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
section within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the Court
Clerk or his or her designee shall notify the State Department of Public
Safety, as such Department is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s
license to the person until proof of payment has been provided.
   (D)   Distribution of tobacco product samples restricted; fines.
      (1)   No person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any
public street, sidewalk or park that is within 300 feet of any playground,
school or other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons
under 18 years of age.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate division (D)(1) above shall be guilty
of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more than $100 for the first
offense within a one-year period and $200 for the second offense or subsequent
offense within a one-year period.
      (3)   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
section within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the Court
Clerk or his or her designee shall notify the State Department of Public
Safety, as such Department is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s
license to the person until proof of payment has been provided.
   (E)   Sale of tobacco except in original, sealed packaging prohibited; fine.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate division (E)(1) above shall be guilty
of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more than $200 for each
offense.
   (F)   Possession of tobacco by minors prohibited; falsifying proof of age;
punishment; remedial activities; expungement of conviction.
      (1)   Except as provided under division (C)(2) above, it is unlawful for
a person who is under 18 years of age to purchase, receive or have in their
possession a tobacco product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
      (2)   On conviction of an individual for an offense under division (F)(1)
above, the court shall suspend execution of sentence and shall require the
defendant to attend a tobacco education program. The court shall require the
parent or guardian of the defendant to attend the tobacco education program
with the defendant.
      (3)   If access to the tobacco education program is not readily
available, the court shall require the defendant to perform eight to 12 hours
of tobacco-related community service instead of attending a tobacco education
program.
      (4)   The tobacco education program and the tobacco-related community
service are remedial and are not punishment.
      (5)   No later than the ninetieth day after the date of conviction under
division (F)(1) above, the defendant shall present to the court, in a manner
required by the court, evidence of satisfactory completion of the tobacco
education program or the tobacco-related community service.
      (6)   On receipt of the evidence required under division (F)(5) above,
the court shall:
         (a)   If the defendant has been convicted of a previous offense under
division (F)(1) above which offense occurred within one year prior to the
offense for which the defendant is currently charged, execute the sentence, and
at the discretion of the court, assess a fine of not less than $10 and not more
than $200; and
         (b)   If the defendant has not been convicted of a previous offense
under division (F)(1) above which offense occurred within one year prior to the
offense for which the defendant is currently charged, dismiss the complaint and
discharge the defendant.
      (7)   If the court dismisses the complaint under division (F)(6)(b)
above, the defendant is released from all penalties and disabilities resulting
from the offense except that the defendant is considered to have been convicted
of the offense if the defendant is subsequently convicted of the same charge if
such a repeat offense occurs within one year of the dismissed offense.
      (8)   Any person convicted of an offense under division (F)(1) above may
apply to the court to have the conviction expunged. If the court finds that the
individual satisfactorily completed the tobacco education program or tobacco-
related community service ordered by the court and that there has been no
subsequent offense for a period of at least one year after the date of the
offense for which the person was convicted, the court shall order the
conviction and any complaint, verdict, sentence or other document relating to
the offense to be expunged from the individual’s record and the conviction may
not be shown or made known for any purpose.
      (9)   If the defendant does not provide the evidence required under
division (F)(5) above within the period specified by that subsection or upon
failure of the defendant to pay any fine authorized by this section within 90
days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the Court Clerk or his or her
designee shall notify the State Department of Public Safety, as such Department
is authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the person until
the required evidence or proof of payment has been provided.
   (G)   Reporting. The Town Clerk or his or her designee shall furnish any
information or reports required or requested by the State Alcoholic Beverages
Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission in the form, manner and time as may be
determined by the ABLE Commission.
   (H)   Nonretaliation. No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any
manner retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or customer
because such employee, applicant or customer reported violations of any
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1-5-98, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 6: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
6-6-1   Definitions
   
6-6-2   Animals running at large prohibited; including dogs and cats
   
6-6-3   Impounding animals
   
6-6-4   Turning animals at large unlawful
   
6-6-5   Pasturing in public areas illegal
   
6-6-6   Animals which disturb prohibited, constitute nuisance
   
6-6-7   Buildings for animals; construction and conditions
   
6-6-8   Buildings for animals; location
   
6-6-9   Premises to be kept clean
   
6-6-10   Health Officer to inspect
   
6-6-11   Office of Animal Control Officer created; powers and duties
   
6-6-12   Confinement of female dog or cat which is in season
   
6-6-13   Leashing animals, when
   
6-6-14   Kennels, licensing
   
6-6-15   Cows, goats and horses prohibited within town limits unless provisions
met
   
6-6-16   Keeping of wild, exotic or dangerous animals
   
6-6-17   Zoning ordinance to prevail
   
6-6-18   Penalty
Dog and Cat Vaccination, Tags and Tax
   
6-6-30   Dogs and cats to be vaccinated
   
6-6-31   Dog registration; tag
   
6-6-32   Tag to be placed on dog collar; lost tags
   
6-6-33   Court proceedings against vicious or dangerous animals
Animal Control Shelter
   
6-6-45   Shelter established; feeding animals
   
6-6-46   Animals to be impounded
   
6-6-47   Breaking animal control shelter
   
6-6-48   Fees for impounding
   
6-6-49   Owner may redeem
   
6-6-50   Sale or destruction of impounded animals
   
6-6-51   Owner may claim excess money
Cruelty to Animals
   
6-6-65   Cruelty to animals
   
6-6-66   Poisoning animals
   
6-6-67   Encouraging animals to fight
Proclamation of Rabies
   
6-6-80   Dogs and cats confined; when
   
6-6-81   Quarantine of animals for observation
   
6-6-82   Securing support information on diagnosed animals
   
6-6-83   Rabies crisis declaration
   
6-6-84   Destruction of animals under crisis period
   
6-6-85   Surrender of animals under suspect
   
6-6-86   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal, including fowl.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. See HEALTH OFFICER.
   AT LARGE. Neither enclosed within a building, fence or other enclosure of
sufficient strength and construction to restrain and keep the animal within the
building, fence, automobile or other enclosure, nor securely restrained and
controlled by a person by a leash or harness with handhold of sufficient
strength to control the animal.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The director of the County Health Department or his or her
authorized agent and shall also include the Town Animal Control Officer.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   PERMIT. Includes, but is not limited to, the failure to take adequate
precautions to prevent an animal from being at large.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any
person without undue provocation, or which attacks or barks or growls at and
acts as if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not
unduly provoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 6-6-2 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED, INCLUDING DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper shall not permit any animals, including a dog or
cat, and including but not limited to other animals or fowl, to be at large in
the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time in the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 6-6-3 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer, or any other town officer or
employee shall catch, or take up, and impound in the town shelter any animal
which is at large within the town or in violation of this code.
      (2)   When an animal is so impounded, it shall be humanely kept and
treated, and may be redeemed and disposed of, as other impounded animals are
kept, treated and redeemed or disposed of. a description of the animal shall be
kept and if the owner is known, the town shall attempt to notify the owner of
the impoundment orally or in writing.
   (B)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any part of this section
proof that the animal described in the complaint was at large as defined herein
and that the defendant named in the complaint was the owner of the animal shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the owner permitted his
or her animal to be at large in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
§ 6-6-4 TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large, or in any
manner to turn the animal at large.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 6-6-5 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any private property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 6-6-6 ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED, CONSTITUTE NUISANCE.
   (A)   The following conditions are hereby declared to be a nuisance:
      (1)   Any dog or other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise,
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person;
      (2)   Any dog or other animal which goes into any garbage can or other
waste vessel, or turns the same over or scatters the contents of the same on
the ground; and
      (3)   Any dog or other animal which chases cars, motorcycles, bicycles or
any other motor vehicle or intimidates joggers, pedestrians or children.
   (B)   Any dog or other animal alleged to be a nuisance, as defined in this
section, may be proceeded against in the Municipal Court after a complaint has
been duly filed therein by any person having knowledge thereof, and if the
court shall find that such dog or other animal is a nuisance, then the court
may order the owner or person in possession to prevent and abate such nuisance,
or the court may order such dog or animal impounded and the owner or person in
possession may have the dog or other animal returned upon paying all costs of
impounding and giving good and sufficient bond, in the sum as set by the town,
conditioned that he or she will prevent and abate such nuisance. Thirty days
thereafter, such owner or person in possession may present to the court
evidence that the nuisance has been abated and prevented and the court may,
upon such hearing, order the bond returned.
(Prior Code, § 4-107)
§ 6-6-7 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; CONSTRUCTION AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept within the town
shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept
clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Every such building housing any livestock or fur-bearing animals,
including, but not limited to, any horse, mule, donkey, cow, goat or sheep, if
located within 200 feet of any apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding
house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a water-tight
and fly-tight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations
of manure. The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
the receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 4-108)
§ 6-6-8 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; LOCATION.
   No veterinary hospital, kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard,
barn, stable, cow shed or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than 100 feet to any apartment house, hotel, restaurant,
boarding-house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious or
hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 4-109)
§ 6-6-9 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Every structure, stable, pen, coop or place wherein an animal is kept or
permitted to be kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 4-110)
§ 6-6-10 HEALTH OFFICER TO INSPECT.
   The Health Officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or her own
initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided
in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He or she
may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 4-111)
§ 6-6-11 OFFICE OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Office of Animal Control Officer is hereby created. The Animal Control
Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter and is hereby
authorized to file complaints in the Municipal Court for violations of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-112)
§ 6-6-12 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOG OR CAT WHICH IS IN SEASON.
   It is unlawful for the owner or harborer to fail, at all times, to confine
any female dog or cat which is in season, in a building or secure enclosure,
veterinarian, hospital or boarding kennel, except when on a leash and under the
control of a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 4-113)
§ 6-6-13 LEASHING ANIMALS, WHEN.
   When requested by any proper official, meter reader, police officer,
sanitation worker or other person whose duty is to enter onto private property,
an owner shall leash or otherwise confine any and all dogs to prevent harm to
the person making a lawful entry on owner’s private property.
(Prior Code, § 4-114)
§ 6-6-14 KENNELS, LICENSING.
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing, keeping or harboring or allowing to be
kept or harbored three or more animals six months old or older shall be deemed
to be operating a private kennel for such animals. No person shall operate a
private kennel without first obtaining an annual license to operate the kennel
from the town for a fee as set by the town.
   (B)   Licensees under this section shall permit the Animal Control Officer
to inspect the premises used as a private kennel. Private kennels shall be
maintained in accordance with the written standards of the American Humane
Society and applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
   (C)   All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall:
      (1)   Maintain records and retain such records for a two-year period on
all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show breed,
color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for which the
animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including name and
address of new owner), and disease prevention or treatment and by whom;
      (2)   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate
physical space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water,
weather protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      (3)   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   (D)   A kennel owner must show proof of rabies vaccination on all animals
over four months of age when applying for a license.
(Prior Code, § 4-115)
§ 6-6-15 COW, GOATS AND HORSES PROHIBITED WITHIN TOWN LIMITS UNLESS
PROVISIONS MET.
   (A)   Cows, goats, horses, mules and other large animals prohibited in town
limits, unless the following conditions are met, to wit:
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to
keep, stable or pen any cow, goat, horse, mule or other large animal in the
town limits;
      (2)   Persons allowed to keep, stable, pen or maintain any cow, goat,
horse, mule or other large animal within the town limits shall be the legal
owner of a minimum of two acres for the first animal and an additional one acre
for each additional animal, up to a total of three animals and four acres; and
      (3)   The provision of this section shall not include the existing sale
barns located within the town limits.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of this section is as follows.
      (1)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation who violates this section,
first offense, shall be given notice to remove such animals within 72 hours.
Any subsequent violation would be punishable by fine without further notice.
      (2)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation in violation of this
section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   Enforcement of this section shall be the duty and responsibility of
the animal control officer or the Chief of Police or any other law enforcement
officer hired by the town.
   (C)   The condition cited herein impact the safety, welfare and health of
the citizens of the town and for that reason, the emergency clause is necessary
to make this chapter enforceable upon the date Its passage.
(Ord. 4-116-2019-3-1, passed 4-1-2019)
§ 6-6-16 KEEPING OF WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a wild, exotic or dangerous animal
means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a domestic animal
and which can normally be found in the wild state, with or without mean or
vicious propensities, including, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards,
panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants,
rhinoceroses and all forms of poisonous or large snakes, including those
considered dangerous such as boas and pythons, lynxes, raccoons, skunks,
monkeys and other like animals.
   (B)   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild, exotic or dangerous animal
in the town limits as a pet or for display or for exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in this section.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks or
zoos, performing animal exhibitions or circuses licensed by the town.
   (D)   If the owner of a wild, exotic or dangerous animal can establish to
the Police Department’s satisfaction that an animal ordinarily considered as
wild, dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other animals and that
the animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the Town Clerk may issue a
permit to the owner to keep such animal in the town limits.
      (1)   The permit shall be renewed annually. The fee shall be set by the
Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   For any animal so permitted as provided in this division (D), the
owner agrees to accept full responsibility for the actions and behavior of such
animal.
      (3)   The establishment of whether such animal is healthy, safe and tame
as a pet shall be the responsibility of the owner of the animal by submitting
written evidence to the Police Department.
      (4)   No permit shall be granted by the Clerk unless written approval to
the evidence submitted by the owner is submitted to the Clerk in advance.
   (E)   The town may issue temporary permits for keeping, care and protection
of an infant animal native to this area which has been deemed to be homeless.
The town shall have the power to release or order the release of any infant
wild animal kept under temporary permit which is deemed capable of survival.
(Prior Code, § 4-150)
§ 6-6-17 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future
zoning ordinance, the provision of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and
supersede the provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-160)
§ 6-6-18 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or
provision of this chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out
any reasonable order made by the Health Officer pursuant to this chapter,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
   (B)   The penalties provided for herein shall be in addition to other
remedies of the town and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as
exclusive.
(Prior Code, § 4-180)
DOG AND CAT VACCINATION, TAGS AND TAX
§ 6-6-30 DOGS AND CATS TO BE VACCINATED.
   The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against
rabies by a veterinarian every calendar year, or, in the case of a pup or
kitten, before it is four months old. The person vaccinating the dog or cat
shall furnish a certificate or statement of vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 4-120)
§ 6-6-31 DOG REGISTRATION; TAG.
   (A)   A fee in such sum as set by the Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution for every dog more than six months of age is hereby levied upon the
owner of any such dog kept or harbored within the town.
   (B)   The regulatory fee levied in this section shall not apply to a dog
only temporarily brought and kept within the town, nor to a dog brought within
the town to participate in a dog show, nor to a “seeing eye” dog when such dog
is actually being used by a blind person to aid him or her in going from place
to place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
   (C)   The owner shall pay the fee levied to the town for every calendar year
and within 30 days after acquiring or bringing the dog into the town. The
licenses shall expire one year from the date the license was last issued and
shall not be issued for less than one year.
   (D)   The person offering the fee shall present to the town the certificate
of a veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize dogs showing
that the dog has been immunized against rabies during the preceding six months
prior to issuance of the license.
   (E)   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the fee, register
the dog by giving the name and address of the owner, the name, breed, color and
sex of the dogs, and such other reasonable information as the town may request.
   (F)   The town shall deliver an original receipt to the owner and also an
appropriate tag to him or her for the dog. The tag shall constitute a license
for the dog.
(Prior Code, § 4-121)
§ 6-6-32 TAG TO BE PLACED ON DOG COLLAR; LOST TAGS.
   (A)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the town to be affixed to
the collar of the dog so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the
town. The owner shall see that the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   (B)   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the town,
presenting to him or her the original receipt, and paying to him or her a fee
as set by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-122)
§ 6-6-33 COURT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or other animal alleged to be vicious or dangerous may be
proceeded against in the Municipal Court, after a complaint has been duly filed
therein by any person having knowledge thereof.
   (B)   If the court shall find that, at such time:
      (1)   The dog or other animal has attacked a person, and:
         (a)   The person so attacked was not at the time trespassing upon the
property of the owner or person having control of such dog or other animal; or
         (b)   It cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the person so
attacked was provoking or teasing such dog or other animal.
      (2)   The dog or other animal is of such vicious and fierce disposition
as to attack human beings without provocation, then the court shall have the
authority to order such dog or other animal kept muzzled or that such dog or
other animal be kept within a sufficient enclosure. If such dog or other animal
has bitten or attacked a human being on other occasions, the court may order
that it be delivered to the Animal Control Officer and destroyed by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 4-123)
ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER
§ 6-6-45 SHELTER ESTABLISHED; FEEDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   A town animal control shelter is hereby established under the
jurisdiction of the Animal Control Officer or of such other person as may be
officially designated.
   (B)   The person in charge of the animal control shelter shall provide
proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane
manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-130)
§ 6-6-46 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer, a police officer, or such other officer or
employee of the town as may be authorized by the town:
      (1)   Shall take into custody and impound any animal running at large in
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the town; and
      (2)   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises
to take such animal into custody.
   (B)   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it to
the authority in charge of the animal control shelter for impounding.
(Prior Code, § 4-131)
§ 6-6-47 BREAKING ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER.
   No unauthorized person shall:
   (A)   Break or attempt to break open the animal control shelter, or take or
let out any animal therefrom;
   (B)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the town any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
   (C)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-132)
§ 6-6-48 FEES FOR IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution shall determine the
fees to be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the fee, a
fraction of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full
day.
   (B)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees
to the Town Treasurer and present his or her receipt therefor to the person in
charge of the control shelter before the latter releases the animal.
   (C)   Any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by §§
6-6-30 through
6-6-33 shall pay the required license tax to the Town Treasurer and secure a
tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in charge of the
control shelter before the latter releases the dog. If a dog has been licensed
but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge of the control shelter shall
require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the dog or cat before
releasing it.
(Prior Code, § 4-133)
§ 6-6-49 OWNER MAY REDEEM.
   An owner of an impounded animal or his or her agent may redeem the animal,
prior to its sale or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the required
fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be
prescribed in this chapter. However, when in the judgment of the Animal Control
Officer, an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not
be redeemed.
(Prior Code, § 4-134)
§ 6-6-50 SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after any animal has been impounded, the Animal
Control Officer or other employee or officer impounding the animal, shall post
a notice thereof at the police office or animal control shelter of the town.
The notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the charges
thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The notice shall also
state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold or destroyed
as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an impounded animal
shall be held for 72 hours during which time it may be redeemed pursuant to
this chapter. No animal may be destroyed or sold until after this period.
   (C)   Sales herein provided for shall be for cash and shall be conducted by,
or under the direction of the Chief of Police. In no case shall the price of an
animal be less than the fees, set out in this chapter, which have accrued
against the animal. If an impounded animal cannot be sold, the animal shall be
destroyed, in a humane manner, or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner.
   (D)   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer shall pay to the town all money received
from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received.
(Prior Code, § 4-135)
§ 6-6-51 OWNER MAY CLAIM EXCESS MONEY.
   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may claim the
excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the same and a fee of $5 to reimburse the town for any expense it has
had in making the sale, at any time within three months after the sale. If a
claim is so made and approved by the Board of Trustees, the Town Treasurer
shall pay him or her such excess. If a claim is not made, the excess shall
belong to the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-136)
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 6-6-65 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to pour on, or
apply to an animal, any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal;
or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or knowingly to
neglect an animal belonging to him or her or in his or her custody in a cruel
or inhumane manner.
   (B)   The premises on or in which any animals are kept shall be subject to
inspection by the Health Officer or any of his or her representatives, at any
reasonable hour of the day, for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (C)   Any police officer or animal control officer may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine such animal and take possession of such animal when, in his or her
opinion it requires humane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 4-140)
§ 6-6-66 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other animal
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal or knowingly to expose poison so that
the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-141)
§ 6-6-67 ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal or to keep a house, pit or other place
used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-142)
PROCLAMATION OF RABIES
§ 6-6-80 DOGS AND CATS CONFINED; WHEN.
   (A)   When the Health Officer or Chief of Police determines and certifies
that a dog, a cat, or other animal in the town or within five miles of the town
is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the
town, the Board of Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be confined,
and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of time to be
determined by the Board of Trustees. Such resolution or an adequate notice of
its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
town and shall go into effect on the day following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution, or for any
dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-170)
§ 6-6-81 QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the Animal Control Officer and the County
Health Department. The animal, regardless of its immunization status, shall be
securely quarantined at a veterinary hospital of the owner’s choice at the
owner’s expense. The animal shall be observed by a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten days, and may not be released until such reasonable determination
has been made that the animal is not infected with rabies, unless the bite was
a severe bite by an unimmunized animal. In circumstances of a severe bite (bite
on the head, face, neck or upper extremities; or deep laceration; or multiple
bite wounds) by an unimmunized animal, the biting animal should be humanely
killed immediately, without damaging the head, and the head removed and
shipped, under refrigeration, for examination at the State Department of
Health. If the animal is not immediately available for testing, the individuals
exposed should consult with their physician concerning the need for immediate
initiation for rabies prophylaxis. In case of animals whose ownership is
unknown, such quarantine shall be at the town animal shelter. If an owner
becomes known, the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of
rabies, and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
Signs of rabies in wild animals cannot be interpreted reliably; therefore, any
wild animal that exposes a person should be killed at once (without unnecessary
damage to the head) and the head submitted for examination for evidence of
rabies.
   (B)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the Animal Control Officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   (C)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Animal
Control Officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her to be
a rabid suspect.
(Prior Code, § 4-171)
§ 6-6-82 SECURING SUPPORT INFORMATION ON DIAGNOSED ANIMALS.
   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or is
suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under such
observation, the Animal Control Officer, veterinarian, the Town Health Officer,
or other designated emissary shall immediately send the necessary part of such
animal to the State Health Department for pathological examination and shall
notify the proper public Health Officer of any reports of human contact.
(Prior Code, § 4-172)
§ 6-6-83 RABIES CRISIS DECLARATION.
   When a report gives a suspected or a positive diagnosis of rabies, or when
the town, county or state health officials feel that a rabies crisis may be
imminent, the health officials may recommend to the Town Manager town-wide
quarantine, and upon the invoking of such quarantine by the Town Board of
Trustees, by resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted
to be in the streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and
control of a competent adult. During the quarantine no animal may be taken or
removed from the town without written permission of the Animal Control Officer.
This declaration must be made by notice in a general circulated newspaper of
the community and will last as long as health officials determine the situation
requires such action.
(Prior Code, § 4-173)
§ 6-6-84 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS UNDER CRISIS PERIOD.
   (A)   During the period of rabies quarantine as mentioned every animal
bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed, or at
the owner’s expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a
licensed veterinarian, or held under six-month quarantine by the owner in the
same manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended
from time to time.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended
for an additional six months.
   (C)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove same from the town
limits without written permission from the Health Officer of the town or the
Animal Control Officer.
   (D)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
(Prior Code, § 4-174)
§ 6-6-85 SURRENDER OF ANIMALS UNDER SUSPECT.
   No person shall remove from the town any animal suspected of having been
exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the Animal Control Officer upon demand, and the Animal Control Officer shall
direct disposition of the animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-175)
§ 6-6-86 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or provision of
this chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any
reasonable order made by the Health Officer pursuant to this chapter, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
1-4-1. The penalties provided for herein shall be in addition to other remedies
of the town and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as exclusive.
(Prior Code, § 4-180)
CHAPTER 7: FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION
Section
   
6-7-1   Intent
   
6-7-2   Acts prohibited
   
6-7-3   Acts exempted
   
6-7-4   Fair Housing Council created
   
6-7-5   Fair Housing Council powers
   
6-7-6   Complaint procedure
   
6-7-7   Hearing by Council
   
6-7-8   Penalty
§ 6-7-1 INTENT.
   The general intention of the town in providing for the passage of this
chapter is as follows:
   (A)   To secure for all residents of the town equal access to housing in all
neighborhoods and areas of the town; and
   (B)   To preserve the public welfare, to provide for the preservation of
public peace, health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
§ 6-7-2 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association to commit
any of the following acts:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
   (B)   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, because
of such person’s race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
   (C)   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
or persons of another race, color, sex, religion or national origin, either by
direct solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed material or making statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his or her property due to such change in
neighborhood; or
   (D)   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)
§ 6-7-3 ACTS EXEMPTED.
   Nothing contained herein shall apply to the following:
   (A)   To prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for reasons other than race, color, religion or national origin;
   (B)   To the sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first
offered for sale, the principal residence of its owner;
   (C)   To the rental of rooms in an owner-occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house;
   (D)   To the rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing
less than four housing units; or
   (E)   To the rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing units owned by a
religious or fraternal organization, or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-703)
§ 6-7-4 FAIR HOUSING COUNCIL CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Council of the town, hereinafter
referred to as “Council,” composed of the members of the Town Board of
Trustees. All appointments to the Council shall be the same as and run
concurrently with the term of office of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-704)
§ 6-7-5 FAIR HOUSING COUNCIL POWERS.
   The powers of the Fair Housing Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Have the power to prescribe such rules and regulations as it shall
deem necessary or expedient for the conduct and carrying out of its functions,
and it shall have the power to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation
as administered by the Council, regardless of the manner in which prescribed;
   (B)   Seek settlement and disposition of any complaint filed with the
Council by means of conferences and conciliation;
   (C)   As to investigation:
      (1)   Have the power, either by itself or by any officer or person
designated for the purposes by it, to investigate and to examine or inquire
into the affairs or operation of any person, firm, corporation or association
within its jurisdiction; and further when so authorized by the Town Board of
Trustees for the town, the council shall have the power to employ consultants
and professional counsel to aid in such investigations, examinations or
inquiries; and
      (2)   For the purposes of gathering evidence on any subject, the Council
shall have the power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and other
effects.
   (D)   The Council shall have the authority to initiate in its name, or to
receive and initiate upon the filing of formal charges, complaints against any
person, firm, corporation or association violating any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-705)
§ 6-7-6 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice prohibited by this
section, may file with the Fair Housing Council, a complaint in writing under
oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, and
shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this section, and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
Council. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within 30 days after
the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time, shall be considered
a waiver of the application of this section. The Council may issue a complaint
on its own initiative, at any time it is within the knowledge of the Council
that a person has violated any of the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The Council shall investigate each complaint filed with the Council,
and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation. Sixty days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a complaint is not well
founded, the Council shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and
respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the Council takes no action within
90 days of the filing of the complaint, it shall be considered as dismissed.
(Prior Code, § 5-706)
§ 6-7-7 HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   If the Council is unsuccessful by means of conference or conciliation
in securing compliance with this section by any person, firm, corporation or
association against which a complaint has been filed, then a notice in writing
shall be served upon the person complained against (hereinafter referred to as
the “respondent.” Notifying the respondent of the alleged violation of the
provisions of this chapter and requesting that the respondent answer charges of
the complaint at a hearing before the Council.
   (B)   The Council shall give notice of any such hearing at least ten days
before the date and time which such hearing has been set. Any and all notices
required under the provisions of this chapter may be served personally on any
person complained against, or by mailing a copy thereof by certified registered
mail, with return receipt requested, to the most current business or
residential address of the person.
   (C)   The notice shall contain the request for the respondent to appear at a
hearing for the purposes of determining whether or not a violation of this
chapter has been committed, which hearing shall be held at a certain time and
place which shall be specified in the notice. The notice shall advise the
respondent that upon failure to comply with the notice, the respondent shall be
considered to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   As to hearings by Council:
      (1)   As any such hearing, as provided for above, the complaint shall be
heard by the Council. At the hearing, the respondent, person, firm, corporation
or association shall appear either in person, or by counsel and shall be
required to file a written answer to the complaint. The complainant or person
aggrieved by the actions of the person, firm, corporation or association may
also appear in person or by counsel at the hearing. The Council will then
proceed to hold a hearing to determine whether the respondent has committed an
act in violation of the provisions of this chapter and which act is detrimental
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public, the community, and the
citizens of the town;
      (2)   The Council, when conducting any hearing, shall permit both the
person aggrieved and the respondent to introduce any such witnesses, evidence,
testimony or exhibits as either party deems necessary and prudent. Further the
Council may at such time permit amendments to any written complaint or answer
as filed with the Council and all testimony taken at the hearing shall be under
oath. Either party represented at the hearing shall have the right to request
that the testimony be transcribed, or the testimony shall be transcribed at the
direction of the Council:
         (a)   If the Council finds at any such hearing, that the respondent
has engaged in discriminatory practices as prohibited by this chapter, it shall
state its finding of fact in written report form and forward the report to the
Town Attorney for appropriate action; or
         (b)   If the Council, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not
engaged in any discriminatory practices as prohibited herein, it shall so state
its findings in written form, and further shall issue and file an order
dismissing the complaint.
   (E)   The Council shall have the authority and right to promulgate such
rules and regulations and shall govern, expedite and assist the foregoing
procedures as it deems necessary. It shall further maintain all files as
provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-707)
§ 6-7-8 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation or other legal entity which shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to comply therewith or with any
of the requirements thereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 5-708)
TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.   STATE TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY
      
3.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
4.   TURNING AND SIGNALS; RIGHT-OF-WAY
      
5.   BICYCLES
      
6.   VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
CHAPTER 1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-1-1   Size, weight of vehicles, vehicles more than five tons
   
7-1-2   Securing loads
   
7-1-3   Application to animal-drawn vehicles
   
7-1-4   Working on streets; exceptions
   
7-1-5   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
7-1-6   Crossing fire hose
   
7-1-7   Duty of police
   
7-1-8   Disposition and records of traffic citations, warrants and complaints
   
7-1-9   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
7-1-10   Insurance or certificate required
   
7-1-11   Jake brakes
   
7-1-12   Penalty
§ 7-1-1 SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES, VEHICLES MORE THAN FIVE TONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state
law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the
Chief of Police.
   (B)   No vehicle weighing more than ten tons shall be operated upon the
streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except on state
highways.
   (C)   No vehicle or truck weighing in excess of five tons may be parked upon
public streets, easements, alleys or sidewalks in any residential area of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-104)
§ 7-1-2 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-105)
§ 7-1-3 APPLICATION TO ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-111)
§ 7-1-4 WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 15-112)
§ 7-1-5 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this part shall not apply to a driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not
upon returning from a fire alarm. The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle
while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may
be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, except that an
authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped
with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle. These
provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such
provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his or her reckless
disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-113)
§ 7-1-6 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department Official in command.
(Prior Code, § 15-116)
§ 7-1-7 DUTY OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 15-117)
§ 7-1-8 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS AND
COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   (C)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-123)
§ 7-1-9 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-126)
§ 7-1-10 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the town’s boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in
Article VI, Chapter 7, and 47 O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy;
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (D) below, using an insured vehicle with
the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
property and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the compulsory insurance law of the state.
   (D)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state, shall
while operating or using such vehicle within the town’s boundaries, carry
either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a
carrier, providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   (E)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon request of any peace officer of the Department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
1-4-1.
   (F)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (G)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Prior Code, § 15-127)
§ 7-1-11 JAKE BRAKES.
   (A)   Prohibition. A Jake brake, or any similar devices on any engine, shall
not be energized or otherwise used inside the town limits.
   (B)   Definition, prohibition. A JAKE BRAKE is defined as a hydraulically
operated device that operates a power producing diesel engine into a power
absorbing retarding mechanism that produces a noise that is loud and excess.
Accordingly, the use of all Jake brake or similar devices within the town
limits, is hereby prohibited from and after the effective date of this section.
This section shall not apply to fire protection equipment or other emergency
vehicles.
   (C)   Penalties for violation. Any person found to be in violation of any of
the terms and provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to a fine not to exceed $219.
   (D)   Validity. If any term or provision of this section shall be held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable, the remainder thereof shall not be
affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
   (E)   Conflict.
      (1)   All ordinances heretofore adopted on the subject which are in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed and the application of this section as
will not be contrary to the public interest. No variance from the strict
application of any provision shall be granted.
      (2)   The town and the Town Board of Trustees hereby deems that an
emergency exists, and that an emergency measure is necessary for the immediate
preservation of peace, health or safety, and that this section shall go into
effect immediately upon its passage, approval and adoption.
(Ord. 100107A, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 7-1-12 PENALTY.
   Any violations of the provisions of this part shall be punishable as
provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
CHAPTER 2: VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
Speed Regulations
   
7-2-1   School zones
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 7-2-1 SCHOOL ZONES.
   No vehicle shall operate at a speed greater than 15 mph in the areas around
the school that are posted school zone in the town. Any vehicle that is found
to be operating at a speed greater than 15 mph, the assessed fine for speeding
will double.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2001)
CHAPTER 3: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-3-1   Obstructing traffic or driveways
   
7-3-2   Park within indicated space
   
7-3-3   Parking prohibited
§ 7-3-1 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15-230)
§ 7-3-2 PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a space.
(Prior Code, § 15-231)
§ 7-3-3 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   If any vehicle is left unattended or otherwise parked, standing or
stopped upon the shoulder along Hwy 271 between the intersection of Magnolia
Avenue/Hwy 270-271 and Etta Street, any authorized police officer shall have
authority to impound and remove such vehicle and charge to the owner thereof
the cost of towing, storage and other charges incurred in connection therewith.
   (B)   Any police officer of the town shall have the authority to require any
person found violating to present personal identification in the form of a
motor vehicle operator’s permit, motor vehicle, registration or proof of
vehicle ownership.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of any of the terms and provisions
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $219.
   (D)   The Town Board of Trustees hereby deems that an emergency exists, and
that an emergency measure is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace,
health or safety, and that this section shall go into effect immediately upon
its passage, approval and adoption.
(Ord. 100107, passed 10-1-2007)
CHAPTER 4: TURNING AND SIGNALS; RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
7-4-1   Signs at through streets
§ 7-4-1 SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of Trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control
signals.
(Prior Code, § 15-311)
CHAPTER 5: BICYCLES
Section
   
7-5-1   Traffic laws and regulations apply
   
7-5-2   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
7-5-3   Riding on bicycles
   
7-5-4   Use right side of roadway
   
7-5-5   Riding abreast
   
7-5-6   Speed
   
7-5-7   Riding on sidewalks
   
7-5-8   Lights and reflectors
§ 7-5-1 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-402)
§ 7-5-2 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 15-403)
§ 7-5-3 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 15-404)
§ 7-5-4 USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 15-405)
§ 7-5-5 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-406)
§ 7-5-6 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 15-407)
§ 7-5-7 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-408)
§ 7-5-8 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all
distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 15-409)
CHAPTER 6: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
7-6-1   Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions
   
7-6-2   Place of impoundment
   
7-6-3   Police granted authority to impound vehicles
   
7-6-4   Disabled vehicles
   
7-6-5   Vehicles on bridge
   
7-6-6   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
7-6-7   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
7-6-8   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
7-6-9   Vehicles parked overtime
   
7-6-10   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
7-6-11   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
7-6-12   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
7-6-13   Inventory of impounded vehicles
§ 7-6-1 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
§ 7-6-2 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Town
Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 15-502)
§ 7-6-3 POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-504)
§ 7-6-4 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 7-6-5 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
§ 7-6-6 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-507)
§ 7-6-7 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-508)
§ 7-6-8 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-509)
§ 7-6-9 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than 24 hours, shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-510)
§ 7-6-10 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-511)
§ 7-6-11 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 15-512)
§ 7-6-12 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified
the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-513)
§ 7-6-13 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-515)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
2.   EXCAVATIONS
      
3.   LIBRARY
      
4.   PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
8-1-1   Trees and shrubbery to be trimmed
   
8-1-2   Unlawful to injure trees and shrubbery
   
8-1-3   Unlawful to obstruct sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys with
merchandise
   
8-1-4   Unlawful to obstruct unduly sidewalks and streets
   
8-1-5   Unlawful to deposit trash upon streets or sidewalks
   
8-1-6   Unlawful to play on streets
   
8-1-7   Vehicles not to be washed on streets
   
8-1-8   Water, mud from vehicles not to drain onto street
   
8-1-9   Water from filling stations and other businesses
   
8-1-10   Owner or occupant not to permit sidewalk or sidewalk area to become a
hazard
   
8-1-11   Street not to be obstructed so as to interfere with drainage
   
8-1-12   Penalty
§ 8-1-1 TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above, after receiving five days’
notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so, shall be
guilty of an offense against the town. Every day that the owner or occupant
shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the
expiration of the five days’ notice, shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-101)
§ 8-1-2 UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 14-102)
§ 8-1-3 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS
WITH MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit
to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the town any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade.
(Prior Code, § 14-103)
§ 8-1-4 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT UNDULY SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 14-104)
§ 8-1-5 UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 14-105)
§ 8-1-6 UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main-traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-106)
§ 8-1-7 VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET.
   The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the town is
hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14-107)
§ 8-1-8 WATER, MUD FROM VEHICLE NOT TO DRAIN INTO STREET.
   No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 14-108)
§ 8-1-9 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-109)
§ 8-1-10 OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO
BECOME A HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 14-110)
§ 8-1-11 STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 14-111)
§ 8-1-12 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 14-112)
CHAPTER 2: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
8-2-1   Permit required to excavate streets
   
8-2-2   Excavator to warn of defects created
   
8-2-3   Streets must be restored
§ 8-2-1 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCAVATE STREETS.
   No street within the corporate limits of the town, will be cut, broken or
dug into, in any manner whatsoever, without the person, firm or corporation
desiring to so disturb the street, first applying to the Town Clerk for a
permit to so cut, break or dig, over and under the street. Such application by
any such person, firm or corporation shall be in writing and shall designate
the exact location and the exact dimensions and exact purpose of making such
cuts or breaks in any of the town streets. The application shall be filed with
the town and the fee shall be paid in such sum as set by the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-201)
§ 8-2-2 EXCAVATOR TO WARN OF DEFECTS CREATED.
   Any person cutting, digging into, breaking or otherwise disturbing any town
street shall be solely responsible for the installation and maintaining of
warning devices, flickers, lights and such other like equipment as shall be
adequate to warn the traveling public of such street defects. They shall be
fully liable and responsible for any and all damages, losses or injuries to
person or property, which may be caused by any cutting, breaking, digging or
disruptance of town streets.
(Prior Code, § 14-202)
§ 8-2-3 STREETS MUST BE RESTORED.
   (A)   Any person cutting, breaking, digging or disturbing any street or
streets within the limits of the town are hereby obligated to restore the same
to condition equal to that which existed prior to such action, to the end,
extent and degree that the streets will be as nearly identical to its previous
condition as possible. Any defect which appear in such streets, where so cut,
dug or disturbed, within 12 months from the time of the street disturbance,
shall be conclusively presumed to result from such cutting, digging, breaking
or disruptance, and within five days of receipt of written notice to make such
repairs, the person so disturbing any town street shall thereupon cause the
same to be corrected.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply herewith shall be denied the right and
privilege of connecting and tying on to any utilities within the town; and in
the event the repairs as herein provided for are not made, the town shall have
the right to proceed to correct any defects found, and charge the same to the
party responsible therefor.
(Prior Code, § 14-203)
CHAPTER 3: LIBRARY
Section
   
8-3-1   Library service
§ 8-3-1 LIBRARY SERVICE.
   (A)   It is the desire of the governing body of the town to provide good
library service to town residents, by participation in a multi-county public
library system organized under the State Library Code, 65 O.S. §§ 101 through
106, as amended, and financed according to the provisions of the statutes and
of Article X, § 10A, Oklahoma Constitution.
   (B)   The town is located within a public library system served by the
southeastern public library system of the state, established and created under
the State Library Code and approved by the State Department of Libraries.
   (C)   The governing board of the library system consists of members
appointed from each county, including one member appointed by the governing
body of each city of 2,000 or more population according to the latest federal
census, as provided for in the State Library Code.
   (D)   The town will maintain suitable quarters for the public library as a
branch of the multi-county library, and provide maintenance and necessary
utility services of the library quarters and may from time to time at its
option appropriate funds for the operation and/or improvement of said public
library.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
CHAPTER 4: PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES
Section
   
8-4-1   Board of Trustees to make rules for recreational facilities
   
8-4-2   Fees to be determined
   
8-4-3   Penalty
§ 8-4-1 BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO MAKE RULES FOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 8-4-2 FEES TO BE DETERMINED.
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
§ 8-4-3 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Board of Trustees in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the
rules and regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an
offense, and on conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
1.   PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY
      
2.   REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 1: PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY
Section
   
9-1-1   Lease of systems
   
9-1-2   Penalty, adoption by reference
§ 9-1-1 LEASE OF SYSTEMS.
   The town has leased the operation of its water, sewer and gas systems to the
Town Public Works Authority, including setting rates for use of the systems and
all regulations governing them. For a copy of current rates and rules, see the
minutes of the Town Public Works Authority.
(Prior Code, § 17-101)
§ 9-1-2 PENALTY, ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The rates and rules of the Town Public Works Authority are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, fully applicable as if set out at length
herein. Violations are punishable as provided in §1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 17-102)
CHAPTER 2: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
9-2-1   Definitions
   
9-2-2   Accumulation of garbage and refuse
   
9-2-3   Collection of garbage and rubbish
   
9-2-4   Contract and disposal
   
9-2-5   Disposal
   
9-2-6   Inspections
   
9-2-7   Fees
   
9-2-8   Duty to request garbage service
   
9-2-9   Penalty
§ 9-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including
all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowls
from any premises within the town limits.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into
lengths not exceeding three and one-half feet), leaves and the like, from any
premises within the town limits.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse.
   TOWN HEALTH OFFICER. Person so designated to act by the Town Board of
Trustees, at a compensation also set by the Town Board of Trustees, if any.
(Prior Code, § 17-201)
§ 9-2-2 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage or
rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order and
repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodent-
proof and fly-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which shall not be removed except
when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with handles on
the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate
and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may accumulate between
collections. Each container shall have a capacity of not more than 32 gallons,
except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use. All containers
shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of any substance remaining
attached to the inside of the container which would attract flies, mosquitoes
and any other insects.
   (B)   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for collection,
as designated by the Town Board of Trustees, whereby collectors can obtain same
without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards with dogs.
All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in a safe and
sanitary condition at all times.
   (C)   All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs, paper boxes
and scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers required
by this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied or sacked in compact
bundles, weighing no more than 50 pounds, and placed in a location easily
accessible to the collector.
   (D)   There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless the operations
are carried out in an approved-type incinerator, or approval is obtained from
the Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 17-202)
§ 9-2-3 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The town or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the town upon schedule as approved by the Town Board. It is the duty of any
person in possession or control of any premises to place the containers
required by this chapter in a location easily accessible to the collector as
directed by the Town Health Officer.
   (B)   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the Town Health Officer for
removal and disposal of same.
   (C)   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules, shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having same in charge and
by the method directed by the Town Health Officer.
   (D)   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the Town Health Officer.
   (E)   Manure from cowlots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and
other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous or dangerous, shall be removed and disposed of
at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the method
directed by the Town Health Officer.
   (F)   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the town limits, except at such place as may be directed by the Town
Health Officer is prohibited.
   (G)   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering,
scattering contents or junking in any alley or street within the town limits is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-203)
§ 9-2-4 CONTRACT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The town shall have authority to enter into contractual obligation
with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall be limited to contracting
for such service to contract only with persons having proper equipment, meeting
State Department of Health requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect
and dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
provided further that the method of disposal contracted for must be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of
refuse shall have the right to make written application to the town and shall
make written application, setting forth the name of such person, the residence
address thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the
equipment to be used in the collection or disposal of such refuse, the place of
disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of
application, all bids may be considered at some time prior to the expiration of
the then existing contract, if any.
   (C)   Any person whose application has been denied may request and shall be
granted, a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-204)
§ 9-2-5 DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
(Prior Code, § 17-205)
§ 9-2-6 INSPECTIONS.
   The town may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and
all premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-206)
§ 9-2-7 FEES.
   There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 17-207)
§ 9-2-8 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town it is the duty
of every person occupying, or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the Town Clerk at
the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the garbage pickup
and collection serviced; provided, however, that failure of any owner, rental
agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor
in any way impair or impede the town from adding the address of such premises
to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures.
(Prior Code, § 17-208)
§ 9-2-9 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any use of
town-required container by nonresidents without prior written approval of the
Town Clerk, shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 17-209)
TITLE 10: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
      
2.   PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
      
4.   MECHANICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
      
5.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
6.   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS AND GAS PIPING CODES
      
7.   PREFAB OR MOBILE HOME USE AS RESIDENCE
      
8.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
9.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
10-1-1   Building Code adopted
   
10-1-2   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
10-1-3   Penalty
   
10-1-4   Building Official
   
10-1-5   Fire limits defined
   
10-1-6   Building permit required; fee
   
10-1-7   Chicken broiler houses
Procedures and Penalties
   
10-1-20   Injunctions
   
10-1-21   Appeals; exceptions
   
10-1-22   Penalty
   
10-1-23   Relief in courts
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 10-1-1 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The BOCA Basic/National Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as
published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the town for the control of
buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Basic/National Building Code
are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes if any prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
§ 10-1-2 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the Building Code are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 100.1, insert “Town of Wister;”
   (B)   Section 114.3.1, insert: “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
the town code, or as may be set or amended by ordinance or resolution;”
   (C)   Section 117.4, insert: “Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment
as provided in section 1-108 of the town code of ordinances;”
   (D)   Section 118.2, insert: “as provided in section 1-108 of this Code;”
   (E)   Section 123.3, insert: “as provided in section 1-108 of this Code;”
   (F)   Section 501.2, insert: “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided
in the Town Code of ordinances;”
   (G)   Section 1807.2.1, and 1807.2.2, insert: “six feet (6')” and “three
feet (3');” and
   (H)   Section 1906.1, insert: “One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in all
locations.”
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 10-1-3 PENALTY.
   A person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply therewith
or with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters,
repairs or removes, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired or removed a
building or structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted
and approved thereunder or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined any sum as
provided in §
1-4-1, including costs. Each day, upon which a violation continues, shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
§ 10-1-4 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official of this town shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the “Building
Official” by the town’s Building Code; provided, that his or her powers and
duties may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his or
her supervision and control. The term BUILDING INSPECTOR, whenever used in the
ordinances of the town, means the Building Official. The terms ELECTRICAL
INSPECTOR, PLUMBING INSPECTOR and GAS INSPECTOR, wherever used in the
ordinances of the town, also each refer to and mean the Building Official,
unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing inspector or gas inspector is
appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 10-1-5 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The fire limits include all of the area in the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 10-1-6 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved as required in the Building Code, nor any mobile home located, relocated
or constructed, without a building permit issued by the Town Building Official.
Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the town to a
location within the town or from one location in the town to another location
within the town a building permit is required.
   (B)   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the Town Building Official. The applicant shall submit with the
application such reasonable information as the Building Official may require to
enable him or her to determine whether granting the permit would be in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Building Official shall issue the permit upon the
payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion or
resolution of the Town Board of trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule
shall be kept in the office of the Town Building Official.
   (D)   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building.
   (E)   All buildings being constructed by public bodies, such as the state,
counties, school districts, municipalities and tax exempt organizations shall
be exempt from the payment of fees for building permits. Such bodies shall
comply with all other regulations governing the construction of any building in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
§ 10-1-7 CHICKEN BROILER HOUSES.
   It is necessary and essential as a matter of public interest and necessity,
as well as public health and welfare, that the construction or building of
chicken broiler houses be prevented within the town limits.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person within
the town, shall construct or build a chicken broiler house within the town
limits.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall cause to be filed one copy of this section with
the Office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992)
PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES
§ 10-1-20 INJUNCTIONS.
   The Town Attorney, upon discovery of any violations of the provisions of
this subchapter, may immediately seek injuncture relief against those persons
violating provisions of this subchapter, and to bring civil action against such
persons for damages and expenses resulting from any violations of provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
§ 10-1-21 APPEALS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person feeling aggrieved by any action taken by the Town Clerk in
connection with the provisions of this subchapter, or other related ordinances,
may appeal from the decision of the Town Clerk. Such appeal shall be in writing
and must be taken within ten days from the date of the action complained of,
and the appeal shall be lodged with the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Upon the filing of an appeal under this chapter, the Board of Trustees
shall assemble as soon as is convenient thereafter for the purpose of
conducting a hearing on the appeal.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, only in cases of extreme hardship, grant
exceptions to this title.
   (D)   The decision of the Board of Trustees upon all questions of fact shall
be final.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
§ 10-1-22 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any business, trade or
vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or registration is required
by this subchapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this subchapter or by any code adopted by this subchapter, or who
shall otherwise violate any provision of the chapters in this subchapter or of
any code adopted by this subchapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation
or order made by any of the officers provided for in this subchapter, shall be
guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 5-803)
§ 10-1-23 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this subchapter shall interfere with
the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-804)
CHAPTER 2: PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-2-1   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
10-2-2   Additions, insertions and changes to Plumbing Code
   
10-2-3   Plumbers; registration, permits and fees
   
10-2-4   Plumbing; permits and inspections
§ 10-2-1 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the Office Of
The Town Clerk, being marked and designated as “The BOCA Basic/National
Plumbing Code”, the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or amendments
thereto, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town for the
control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Plumbing Code
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this Code, with additions, insertions and changes, if any, prescribed in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 10-2-2 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section P-100.1 (page 5, second line), insert: “the Town of Wister;”
   (B)   Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line), insert: “May 27, 1986;”
   (C)   Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line, insert: “as provided by the Town
Board of Trustees;”
   (D)   Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines), insert:
“offense and punished as provided in section 1-108 of the Town’s Code of
ordinances;”
   (E)   Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line), insert: “twenty five dollars
($25.00) and fine as provided in section 1-108 of ordinances;”
   (F)   Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line), insert: “six hundred feet
(600');” and
   (G)   Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines), insert: “One foot
six inches (1'6") and six inches (6").”
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 10-2-3 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The phrases and words “journeyman plumber,” “plumber’s apprentice,”
“plumbing contractor” and “plumbing,” when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of this town, shall have the
meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§1001 et seq., the State
Plumbing License Law, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber), or
of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber’s apprentice, in this town unless he
or she is registered with the town and has a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the town.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPRENTICE PLUMBER. Any person who is learning the plumbing trade and who
is competent to assist, under the supervision of a journeyman plumber, in the
work of installing or repairing plumbing equipment. A journeyman shall not at
any time have more than two apprentice plumbers under his or her supervision.
“Supervision,” as used under this section, shall mean that the supervising
journeyman plumber shall be present on the job site where the APPRENTICE
PLUMBER is working for a period of not less than five hours for an eight-hour
working period.
      JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER. Any person actually engaged in the work of installing
or repairing any plumbing equipment in the town.
      PLUMBING CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of installing, repairing or altering any plumbing systems or
installing any plumbing equipment or materials of any kind or description in
the town and who is skilled in the planning, superintending and practical
installation of plumbing work and who is licensed by the State Department of
Health and otherwise qualified under the requirements of this code to engage in
the plumbing business).
   (D)   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the State Commissioner of
Health, as provided by law, may register as such with the town. Only persons
who have current and valid certificates of registration as plumber’s
apprentices issued by the State Commissioner of Health, as provided by law, may
register as such with the town. Any license issued to a firm is not
transferable. If a person ceases to be associated with a licensed firm, the
firm is required to secure a new license in the name of the qualified, licensed
entity or person.
   (E)   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with the
laws of the state and with the town code, and after payment of the fee set by
the town, shall be registered by the Town Clerk. The registration shall expire
annually, but may be renewed from year to year. Plumbing contractors desiring
to renew their registration shall furnish the same evidence of compliance with
state licensing laws and bond as set forth by town code.
   (F)   An applicant for plumbing contractor’s registration shall also furnish
bond in such sum and such conditions as set by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All plumbing registrations not renewed within 90 days after the date
of expiration thereof shall be cancelled, and a new application for
registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   (H)   The fees for registration shall be as set by the Town Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution.
   (I)   The Town Board of Trustees, upon at least ten days’ notice and
adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the town registration of
any plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of
the ordinances or regulations of the town relating to the installation of
plumbing or for any other cause specified in the State Plumbing License Law.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 10-2-4 PLUMBING; PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board of Trustees. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
CHAPTER 3: ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-3-1   Electrical equipment defined
   
10-3-2   National Electrical Code
   
10-3-3   Underwriters Laboratories
   
10-3-4   Town may make special rulings
   
10-3-5   Permit required for electrical installations; issuance
   
10-3-6   Inspection fees
   
10-3-7   Electrician’s registration required; bond
   
10-3-8   Electric utility companies not to make connection to building for
which certificates have not been issued
§ 10-3-1 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   The term ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT used in this chapter refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus and any electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to be
installed within or on any building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
§ 10-3-2 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific standards are
prescribed by this chapter or by the statutes of the state or by any orders,
rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity with the
regulations set forth in the current issue of the National Electrical Code as
approved by the National Fire Protection Association, shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 10-3-3 UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES.
   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and the provisions of
this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and regulations
issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards for
safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a statute of the
state or any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 10-3-4 TOWN MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 10-3-5 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of this town or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first securing a permit from the Town Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the Town Clerk;
and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other data as
may be reasonably required.
   (C)   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion or
resolution passed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 10-3-6 INSPECTION FEE.
   The Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
§ 10-3-7 ELECTRICIAN’S REGISTRATION REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
town. The initial fee for a registration certificate, and any renewal, to be
paid to the Town Clerk, shall be as set by the Town Board of Trustees. A
registration certificate must be renewed within 90 days following expiration of
the certificate. After the expiration, an application for a new certificate
must be requested and the initial fee paid again. No person may be registered
with the town as contractor, journeyman or apprentice unless he or she
possesses a valid and current state license issued by the state and pays the
registration fee in such sum as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution. This certificate is not transferable to any other individual or
company.
   (B)   Every person receiving a certificate as a electrical contractor shall
file with the Town Clerk a bond in such sum as set by the Town Board of
Trustees, executed with a surety company authorized to do business in the
state. The bond shall be conditioned that the principal will install all
electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances and equipment in accordance with the
law and the ordinances and other regulations of the town relating to electrical
installations and in a workmanlike manner; that the principal shall, without
further cost to the person for whom the work was done, remedy any defective or
faulty work caused by poor workmanship or inferior or non-standard material;
and that the town may be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all
costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his or her work as
an electrical contractor or apprentice electrician, as the case may be.
   (C)   For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over
12 volts, no registration or bond will be required. The installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (D)   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the Town Board may revoke
the certificate of an electrical contractor an apprentice electrician, or a
journeyman electrician.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 10-3-8 ELECTRIC UTILITY COMPANIES NOT TO MAKE CONNECTION TO BUILDING FOR
WHICH CERTIFICATES HAVE NOT BEEN ISSUED.
   It shall be unlawful for any electric light and power company or any
supplier of electricity for light, heat or power to make any electrical
connection to any building for electric wiring or apparatus until a
certificate, stating that the electric work has been approved, or written
permit authorizing connection has been issued by the Electrical Inspector. All
firms, corporations or individuals, whether operating under a regular franchise
granted by the town or not, shall upon written notice by the Electrical
Inspector, disconnect from any such circuit, including main service wires,
branch feeder wires or distribution, as designated by the notice, and shall not
reconnect to the installation except upon written notice from the Electrical
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
CHAPTER 4: MECHANICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-4-1   Adoption of Mechanical Code
§ 10-4-1 ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the Basic/National Mechanical Code, the
latest edition thereof, issued by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators, Inc., as the Mechanical Code for the town. The Mechanical Code
shall be fully applicable and enforceable in governing mechanical work in the
town, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended, as fully as if set out at length herein. If any provision of the
ordinances of the town are in conflict with the provisions of the Mechanical
Code, except as provided in this chapter, the provisions of the Mechanical Code
shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
CHAPTER 5: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
10-5-1   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
10-5-2   Enforcement
   
10-5-3   Definition
   
10-5-4   Limits for storage of flammable liquids, bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gases, explosives and blasting agents
   
10-5-5   Modifications
   
10-5-6   Appeals
   
10-5-7   Penalty
§ 10-5-1 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Board of Trustees for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code,
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Not less than one copy of the
code has been filed in the office of the Clerk of the town and the same are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. The
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be controlling within the limits
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 10-5-2 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-102)
§ 10-5-3 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-103)
§ 10-5-4 LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, shall be the
town limits. The limits referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted, and the limits in which storage of explosives and
blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as the town limits. This
section shall not effect installations in existence at the time this section
was initially adopted.
(Prior Code, § 13-104)
§ 10-5-5 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have power to modify any of the provisions
of the code hereby adopted in its own discretion or upon application in writing
by the owner or lessee, or its duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the code, provided that
the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modifications when granted or allowed and
the decision of the town thereon shall be entered upon the records of the town
and for applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13-105)
§ 10-5-6 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do, not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Board of Trustees within 30
days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 13-106)
§ 10-5-7 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 13-107)
CHAPTER 6: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS AND GAS PIPING CODE
Section
   
10-6-1   Code adopted
   
10-6-2   Gas Piping Code
§ 10-6-1 CODE ADOPTED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless
such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be
required by state law. The pamphlet, Storage and Handling of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases, as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued by the National Fire
Protection Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the State
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within this
town. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation
of the ordinances of the town and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
§ 10-6-2 GAS PIPING CODE.
   Pamphlet No. 54 published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled National Fuel Gas Code, the latest edition thereof, hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. The pamphlet shall be in full force and
effect in the town and shall govern the installation of gas piping and gas
appliances in the town. Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
CHAPTER 7: PREFAB OR MOBILE HOME USE AS RESIDENCE
Section
   
10-7-1   Use as residence prohibited; exceptions
   
10-7-2   Conditions for allowing use
§ 10-7-1 USE AS RESIDENCE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Prefab homes, mobile homes, camp trailers, RVs, campers, travel trailers and
motor homes used for the purpose of a residence shall be prohibited in all
zoning districts, expect in compliance with each section of this title
regarding mobile home trailer parks, and except when a waiver is approved by
two Council member signatures and/or one Council member signature and one
active firefighter signature.
(Ord. 5-102-010719, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 10-7-2 CONDITIONS FOR ALLOWING USE.
   (A)   Petition for wavier for prefab or mobile home.
      (1)   To receive a waiver for a prefab or mobile home, the owner of the
prefab or mobile home shall obtain and complete an application from the town.
      (2)   The owner of the prefab or mobile home shall circulate a petition
among all owners of land, as shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
office of the County Treasurer, within 300 feet of the tract that is the
proposed site of the prefab or mobile home. A petition of waiver shall be an
affidavit from the applicant listing the names and mailing address, as
reflected by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the County
Treasurer, of all owners within 300 feet of the tract that is the proposed site
of the prefab or mobile home. At least 70% of the property owners within 300
feet of the tract that is the proposed site of the prefab or mobile home must
sign the petition for waiver.
      (3)   The lot shall be a minimum of 6,000 square feet. The lot shall meet
and is subject to all “lot split” approval requirements of the town. Only on
trailer per lot.
      (4)   All prefab or mobile homes receiving a waiver under this section
must have a permanent foundation and meet current and future town standards.
      (5)   All axles, wheels and tongues must be covered by the underpinning
or removed.
      (6)   To obtain a waiver, all prefab or mobile homes must be less than 15
years old and have maintained 80% of the original appearance have a minimum of
840 square feet and meet other relevant requirements for the zoning district of
the site. The 840-square-foot requirement shall be for freestanding homes
without any additions or build-ons.
      (7)   To obtain a waiver for a prefab or mobile home, the applicant must
present; at the time of application, a copy of the title for the prefab or
mobile home that is subject to the application or the MSO for the prefab or
mobile home, if it is new.
   (B)   Utilities requirements.
      (1)   Sewer and other utilities. Prefab and mobile homes must meet all
applicable state and town regulations regarding utilities.
      (2)   Propane prohibited. No new propane connections are allowed.
   (C)   Anchoring. Prefab and mobile homes must be tied down according to
state regulations and underpinning must be completed within 30 days of
installation.
   (D)   Employee occupancy. Where placement of prefab, mobile home,
recreational vehicle or travel trailer is contemplated for employee occupancy
for a period of time greater than 30 days, water and sanitary sewer connections
shall be installed.
(Ord. 5-102-010719, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 8: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-8-1   Citation
   
10-8-2   Purpose, intent and necessity
   
10-8-3   Application
   
10-8-4   Definitions
   
10-8-5   Zoning clearance permit
   
10-8-6   Residential building coverage and area requirements
   
10-8-7   Existing buildings and uses not affected
§ 10-8-1 CITATION.
   This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of
the state in 11 O.S. §43-101, shall be known as the interim zoning ordinance
and shall be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
§ 10-8-2 PURPOSE, INTENT AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of the Board of Trustees of the town,
immediately to begin preparation of and to adopt a general plan that will
provide for the development of an orderly, attractive, efficient and healthful
town and it is further intended that a comprehensive zoning ordinance shall be
prepared and adopted to implement the general plan. The preparation of such an
ordinance will require considerable time for surveys, investigations and
studies before such regulations can be prepared and adopted.
   (B)   During the time that such comprehensive zoning regulations are being
prepared, it would be injurious to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare that the regulations are intended to promote, to permit the
indiscriminate location and conduct of certain activities within the
residential areas of the town, or to permit the overcrowding of land with
buildings for residential purposes, or to permit the projection of buildings
into yard areas needed to provide light, air and open space for the occupants
or inhabitants thereof. The regulations set forth herein are to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare by protecting existing land
use from incompatible development and provide the town a means to supervise its
own growth.
(Prior Code, § 12-202)
§ 10-8-3 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all land, properties,
buildings and structures located within the corporate limits of the town.
Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved
or altered except in accordance with the provisions contained in these
regulations. These regulations shall remain in force until the comprehensive
zoning ordinance is adopted, unless otherwise changed by the Board of Trustees,
but in no case shall they continue in effect for more than 24 months after the
date of adoption of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
§ 10-8-4 DEFINITIONS.
   In these regulations, words used in the present tense shall include the
future tenses, words in the singular number include the plural number, and
words in the plural number include the singular, except where the natural
construction of the writing indicates otherwise. The word “shall” is mandatory
and not directory. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building customarily incidental and subordinate to the
main building and located on the same lot with the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
   ALLEY. A public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT HOUSE OF MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A single detached dwelling
designed for and occupied by three or more families living independently of
each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps,
hotels or resort-type hotels.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more but not exceeding 12 persons.
   BUILDING.  Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of
persons, animals or chattel. When separated by dividing walls without openings,
each portion of such structure so separated, shall be deemed a separate
structure.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any district, any dwelling shall be deemed to
be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by the building, including all overhanging
roofs, except where otherwise specifically designated.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including house trailers.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling designed for occupancy by three or more
families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or resort-type hotels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A dwelling designed to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by two families
living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage, including adopted
children, or a group of not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) not all
related by blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single,
nonprofit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
or lodging house, hotels, club or similar dwelling for group use. A FAMILY
shall be deemed to include domestic servants employed by the family.
   GARAGE APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Any occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which is
conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; provided, that no
trading in merchandise is carried on and in connection with which there is no
display of merchandise or sign other than one nonilluminated name plate not
more than two square feet in area attached to the main or accessory building,
and no mechanical equipment is used or activity is conducted which creates any
noise, dust, odor or electrical disturbance beyond the confines of the lot on
which the occupation is conducted.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or camp,
sanitorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed
under restraint.
   HOUSE TRAILER. Any portable or mobile vehicle used or designed to be used
for living purposes and with its wheels, rollers or skids in place or removed.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building or
a group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses, including such open
spaces as required by these regulations and other laws or ordinances, and
having its principal frontage on a street.
   LOT, AREA. The total area measured on a horizontal plane included within lot
lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full
lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersection
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONTAGE.  The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   RESIDENCE or RESIDENTIAL. Any building, structure or portion thereof, which
is designed or used as living quarters for one or more persons, but not
including a tent, cabin, trailer or trailer coach, boarding or rooming house,
hotel, motel, apartments, duplexes or multiple dwellings.
   STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more structures designed or
intended to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TRAILER COURT. The land or property which is used or intended to be used or
rented for occupancy by one or more trailers or movable sleeping quarters of
any kind.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward except that where otherwise specifically provided in these regulations
an accessory building may be located in a portion of a yard required for a main
building. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of the
side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the main building or
any projection thereof, other than steps.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps, unenclosed
balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be
considered a parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
On both corner lots and interior lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at
the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance from the side lot line and the side of the main building or
any other projections other than steps.
(Prior Code, § 12-204)
§ 10-8-5 ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to change land use within the corporate limits of
the town without a zoning clearance permit. All commercial, industrial, single-
family residential, multi-family residential or other types of land, uses shall
be reviewed and authorized or rejected under the following procedure:
      (1)   An application shall be filed with the planning commission for
review. The application, accompanied by a fee of $10, shall be filed with the
Town Clerk who shall act as the Filing Clerk for the Planning Commission; and
      (2)   Upon the filing of the application, the Town Clerk shall refer the
same to the Planning Commission for its action. The application may be by
letter or by other document sufficient to represent the applicant’s intent and
shall show the location and intended use of the site, the names of all the
property owners and existing land uses within 300 feet, and any other material
pertinent to the request which the Planning Commission may require.
   (B)   The Planning Commission within a reasonable time following the filing
of such application shall transmit to the Board of Trustees its report as to
the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the
neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining
to the general welfare and the recommendation of the Planning Commission
concerning use thereon. Thereupon the Board may authorize or deny the issuance
of a permit for use of land or buildings as requested, upon approval by the
Board, the zoning clearance permit may be issued by the Town Clerk. Any request
for a change in land use must be approved in a public hearing as regulated by
law.
(Prior Code, § 12-205)
§ 10-8-6 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING COVERAGE AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings and structures classified as residential uses shall comply
with the following requirements when located in a residential area.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersection streets are improved with buildings all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from this average setback so established by the existing buildings;
but this regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than 40
feet.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be provided on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on an interior lot a side yard of not less
than five feet shall be provided on both sides of the main dwelling for the
first story and an additional three feet of side yard shall be provided for
each additional story or part thereof.
      (2)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet; provided, however, that unattached one story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to be set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory building
are located more than 75 feet behind the front property line.
      (3)   For dwellings and building accessory thereto, located on corner
lots, there shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not
less than 15 feet in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot and
20 feet in every other case.
      (4)   Churches and main and accessory building, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall be set back from all exterior and
interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there
shall be a rear yard of not less than 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever is
smaller. Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of another dwelling,
but shall not be located closer than ten feet to the rear lot line. Unattached
buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of a main building.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet at the front
building line for single-family and two-family dwellings. For each dwelling
housing three families, there shall be a minimum lot width of 60 feet at the
front building line, and for each dwelling housing more than three families
there shall be a minimum lot width; at the front building line, of 60 feet,
plus ten additional width for each family, more than three families, occupying
such dwelling.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet for a
single-family dwelling, not less than 7,000 square feet for a two-family
dwelling and not less than 9,000 square feet for a multiple-family dwelling
plus an additional area of not less than 2,000 square feet for each family more
than three families, occupying such dwelling.
      (2)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet where
a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a single-family dwelling.
         (a)   When a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a two-
family or multiple-family dwelling, the lot area shall provide not less than
2,000 square feet more than is required for the two-family or multiple-family
dwelling.
         (b)   Not more than one garage apartment shall be permitted on a
single lot with one main building.
      (3)   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all boundary
lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the effective date of
these regulations that lot may be used for single-family dwelling purposes
only.
      (4)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings, shall not cover more than 35%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the rear
yard.
   (G)   Open space. No open space or lot area required for a building or
structure shall be occupied by, or counted as open space for any other building
or structure, during the life of such building or structure:
      (1)   Open eaves, cornices, window sills and belt courses may project
into any required yard a distance not to exceed two feet. Open porches may
project into a front or rear yard a distance not to exceed five feet;
      (2)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at
least one street for at least 35 feet and have a width of at least 50 feet at
the building line. A street shall form the direct and primary means of ingress
and egress for all dwelling units. Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a
secondary means of ingress and egress. A garage apartment may be built to the
rear of a main dwelling if all other provisions of these regulations are
complied with; and
      (3)   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street
shall not be located closer than 25 feet to the street easement line.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
§ 10-8-7 EXISTING BUILDINGS AND USES NOT AFFECTED.
   Any building, structure or use lawfully existing at the time of enactment of
this chapter may be continued, even though such building, structure or use does
not conform with the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-207)
CHAPTER 9: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
10-9-1   Authorization, findings, purpose and methods
   
10-9-2   Definitions
   
10-9-3   General provisions
   
10-9-4   Administration
   
10-9-5   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
10-9-6   Floodplain management fee schedule
   
10-9-7   Penalties for noncompliance
§ 10-9-1 AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in 11 O.S.
§§ 41 through 47 and 82 O.S. §§1601 through 1618, as amended, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt measures designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the town ordains the following, to become
effective immediately.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodpiains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the town
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Town Floodplain Administrator
which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with
this chapter.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones AE, A and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A and X, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.  An official map of the town on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for town which
contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as well as
the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the Board of Trustees of the town to administer and implement laws, ordinances
and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOOD.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within town subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers,
dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are
those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
10-9-3 (B). A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the town’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, “new construction” means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the Town Board of Trustees and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum; the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348)).
Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the Town of Wister Board of Trustees to a
person from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-3 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This flood damage prevention
ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering report
entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for LeFlore County, Oklahoma and
Incorporated Areas” dated August 16, 2012, with the accompanying flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted on August 16, 2012, by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. However, until this date the current
effective flood maps for the town dated April 1, 1980, shall be used for this
purpose until August 16, 2012.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer or liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-
made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the town or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-4 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Board of Trustees of
the town designates the Mayor of the town as Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of National Flood Insurance Program regulations in 44 C.F.R.
pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1618, as amended;
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter;
      (4)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval are required;
      (5)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions);
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of §
10-9-5;
      (9)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as
delineated on the county FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the town;
      (10)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the town, determine if the residential and non-residential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
      (11)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the Board of Trustees; and
      (12)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public, utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (I)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or Board of Trustees, as applicable,
may approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the county FIRM
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit in that case first
complies with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees of the town may grant variances for uses
which do not satisfy the requirements of the State Floodplain Management Act or
this chapter, if the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that:
            1.   Compliance with this chapter will result in an arbitrary and
unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the
people; and
            2.   Satisfies the pertinent provisions of this division (D).
However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the variance will be
to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably creates flooding
hazards.
         (b)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the State Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
         (c)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
20 years.
         (d)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
Board of Trustees, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
         (e)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (C)(2) above and
provisions of this division (D) have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
         (f)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the
base flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees which states that:
            1.   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (g)   At such time as the Board of Trustees deems the petition ready
for notification to the public, the Board of Trustees shall schedule a hearing
and direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (h)   The Board of Trustees shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this division
(D). The Board of Trustees shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the
equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to
the public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
         (I)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances;
and
            4.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (j)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this division (D)
and the intent of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may attach such
conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives stated in §
10-9-1(C).
         (k)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Floodplain Board shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance,
      (2)   Special provisions.
         (a)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (c)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
            1.   The criteria of divisions (D)(1)(e), (D)(1)(I), (D)(2)(b) and
(D)(2)(c) above are met; and
            2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-5 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood wafers into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
division (B)(1) is satisfied.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect
or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
that the standard of this division (B)(2) is satisfied.
      (3)   Enclosures. 
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (4)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed anywhere within
the community in Flood Zones A and/or AE on the county FIRM shall be installed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage and have the bottom of
the I-beam elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to a permanent foundation to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement.
         (c)   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (d)   The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to
state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the county FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
10-9-4(C), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured
homes” in division (B)(4) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
      (6)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zones A and AE on the county FIRM shall comply with the following:
         (a)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         (b)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited
storage;
         (c)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
         (d)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE;
         (e)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (f)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
         (g)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
         (h)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         (I)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         (j)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
   (C)   Standards for subdivisions.
      (1)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in Zones A and AE which is 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
      (2)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      (3)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   (D)   Floodways. The following provisions shall apply to floodways.
      (1)   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development are prohibited
within the adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels within the town during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
10-9-5.
      (3)   The town may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-6 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Town Board of Trustees establishes the following fee schedule not to
exceed $500 for any one service:
   (A)   Notice of intent fee: $25 maximum;
   (B)   Floodplain development permit application review: $100;
   (C)   Floodplain development permit fee: $25;
   (D)   Inspection fee, per inspection: $25; and
   (E)   Variance request filing fee: $25.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 10-9-7 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate or
other certifications required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation
until such time as that documentation is provided.
   (C)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 for
each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case.
   (E)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees of the
town or its Town Attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 12-208, passed 6-4-2012)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. References Code Section
O.S. References                  Code Section
11 O.S.                          1-10-36
11 O.S. § 1-402                 1-1-13
11 O.S. § 12-101                1-6-1
11 O.S. § 16-101                1-6-8
11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.      1-6-6
11 O.S. § 16-112                3-2-6
11 O.S. § 16-302                1-6-8
11 O.S. § 27-101                1-10-1
11 O.S. § 27-102                1-10-1
11 O.S. § 27-111                1-10-16, Title 4
11 O.S. § 27-123                1-10-30
11 O.S. § 27-124                1-10-30
11 O.S. §§ 41-47               10-9-1
11 O.S. § 43-101                10-8-1
21 O.S.                          6-4-3, 6-4-60
21 O.S. §533                    1-10-34
22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 through 1115.1-10-21
37A O.S. § 1-103                3-2-2
43A O.S. § 1-103                1-10-34
47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.       7-1-9
47 O.S. § 7-204                 7-1-10
47 O.S. § 7-503                 7-1-10
47 O.S. § 7-606                 7-1-10
50 O.S. § 12                    5-2-4
50 O.S. § 14                    5-2-5
50 O.S. § 15                    5-2-5
50 O.S. § 16                    5-2-6, 5-2-8
50 O.S. § 17                    5-2-9
59 O.S. § 353.1                 3-2-11
59 O.S. §§1001 et seq.         10-2-3
63 O.S.                          6-4-3
63 O.S. § 1-1011                5-2-11
65 O.S. §§ 101 through 106     8-3-1
68 O.S. § 205                   3-2-24
68 O.S. § 217                   3-2-19
68 O.S. § 220                   3-2-21
68 O.S. § 227                   3-2-22
68 O.S. § 1622                  5-5-1
68 O.S. §§ 6001 through 6004   3-2-9
68 O.S. §1352                   3-2-2
75 O.S. §§ 309 to 317          1-10-10
82 O.S. §§1601-1618            10-9-1, 10-9-4
                                 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Reference 2019 Code Section
Prior Code Reference 2019 Code Section
1-101                1-1-1
1-102                1-3-1
1-104                1-2-1
1-105                1-2-2
1-108                1-4-1
1-109                1-4-2
1-110                1-1-14
1-201                1-5-1
1-202                1-5-2
2-101                1-6-1
2-102                1-6-2
2-103                1-6-3
2-104                1-6-4
2-105                1-6-5
2-106                1-6-6
2-201                1-6-7
2-301                1-8-1
2-302                1-8-2
2-303                1-8-3
2-304                1-8-4
2-305                1-8-5
2-306                1-7-1
2-307                1-7-2
2-308                1-7-4
2-309                1-7-4
2-310                1-7-4
2-311                1-7-3
2-312                1-7-5
2-313                1-7-6
2-501                6-2-25
2-502                6-2-26
2-503                6-2-27
4-101                6-6-1
4-102                6-6-2
4-103                6-6-3
4-104                6-6-4
4-105                6-6-5
4-107                6-6-6
4-108                6-6-7
4-109                6-6-8
4-110                6-6-9
4-111                6-6-10
4-112                6-6-11
4-113                6-6-12
4-114                6-6-13
4-115                6-6-14
4-120                6-6-30
4-121                6-6-31
4-122                6-6-32
4-123                6-6-33
4-130                6-6-45
4-131                6-6-46
4-132                6-6-47
4-133                6-6-48
4-134                6-6-49
4-135                6-6-50
4-136                6-6-51
4-140                6-6-65
4-141                6-6-66
4-142                6-6-67
4-150                6-6-16
4-160                6-6-17
4-170                6-6-80
4-171                6-6-81
4-172                6-6-82
4-173                6-6-83
4-174                6-6-84
4-175                6-6-85
4-180                6-6-18, 6-6-86
5-101                10-1-1
5-102                10-1-2
5-103                10-1-3
5-104                10-1-4
5-105                10-1-5
5-106                10-1-6
5-201                10-2-1
5-202                10-2-2
5-203                10-2-3
5-204                10-2-4
5-301                10-3-1
5-302                10-3-2
5-303                10-3-3
5-304                10-3-4
5-305                10-3-5
5-306                10-3-6
5-307                10-3-7
5-308                10-3-8
5-401                10-6-1
5-501                10-6-2
5-601                10-4-1
5-701                6-7-1
5-702                6-7-2
5-703                6-7-3
5-704                6-7-4
5-705                6-7-5
5-706                6-7-6
5-707                6-7-7
5-708                6-7-8
5-801                10-1-20
5-802                10-1-21
5-803                10-1-22
5-804                10-1-23
6-101                1-10-1
6-102                1-10-2
6-103                1-10-3
6-104                1-10-4
6-105                1-10-5
6-106                1-10-6
6-107                1-10-7
6-108                1-10-8
6-109                1-10-9
6-110                1-10-10
6-111                1-10-11
6-112                1-10-12
6-113                1-10-13
6-114                1-10-14
6-115                1-10-15
6-116                1-10-16
6-117                1-10-17
6-118                1-10-18
6-119                1-10-19
6-120                1-10-20
6-121                1-10-21
6-122                1-10-22
6-123                1-10-23
6-124                1-10-24
6-125                1-10-25
6-126                1-10-26
6-127                1-10-27
6-128                1-10-28
6-129                1-10-29
6-130                1-10-30
6-131                1-10-31
6-132                1-10-32
6-133                1-10-33
7-101                3-1-1
7-102                3-1-2
7-103                3-1-3
7-104                3-1-4
7-201                3-2-1
7-202                3-2-2
7-203                3-2-3
7-204                3-2-4
7-205                3-2-5
7-206                3-2-6
7-207                3-2-7
7-208                3-2-8
7-209                3-2-9
7-210                3-2-10
7-211                3-2-11
7-212                3-2-12
7-213                3-2-13
7-214                3-2-14
7-215                3-2-15
7-216                3-2-16
7-217                3-2-17
7-218                3-2-18
7-219                3-2-19
7-220                3-2-20
7-221                3-2-21
7-222                3-2-22
7-223                3-2-23
7-224                3-2-24
7-225                3-2-25
7-226                3-2-26
7-301                3-3-1
7-302                3-3-2
7-401                3-4-1
7-402                3-4-2
7-403                3-4-3
7-404                3-4-4
7-405                3-4-5
8-201                5-3-1
8-204                5-3-2
8-301                5-2-1
8-302                5-2-2
8-303                5-2-3
8-304                5-2-4
8-305                5-2-5
8-306                5-2-6
8-307                5-2-7
8-308                5-2-8
8-309                5-2-9
8-310                5-2-10
8-311                5-2-11
8-312                5-2-12
8-401                5-6-1
8-402                5-6-2
8-403                5-6-3
8-404                5-6-4
8-501                5-1-1
8-502                5-1-2
8-503                5-1-3
8-504                5-1-4
9-101                4-1-1
9-102                4-1-2
9-103                4-1-3
9-104                4-1-4
9-105                4-1-5
9-106                4-1-6
9-107                4-1-7
9-201                4-3-1
9-202                4-3-2
9-203                4-2-3
9-204                4-2-4
9-205                4-3-5
9-206                4-3-6
9-207                4-3-7
9-208                4-3-8
9-209                4-3-9
9-210                4-3-10
9-211                4-3-11
9-212                4-3-12
9-213                4-3-13
9-214                4-3-14
9-215                4-3-15
9-216                4-3-16
9-217                4-3-17
10-101               6-4-1
10-102               6-4-2
10-103               6-4-3
10-204               6-4-15
10-205               6-4-16
10-206               6-4-17
10-207               6-4-18
10-208               6-4-19
10-209               6-4-20
10-210               6-4-21
10-212               6-4-22
10-213               6-4-23
10-215               6-4-24
10-301               6-4-35
10-302               6-4-36
10-303               5-5-1
10-304               6-4-37
10-307               6-4-38
10-308               6-4-39
10-406               6-4-55
10-407               6-4-56
10-408               6-4-57
10-409               6-4-59
10-411               6-4-60
10-412               6-4-61
10-413               6-4-62
10-414               6-5-1
10-415               6-4-63
10-416               6-4-64
10-417               6-4-65
10-418               6-4-66
10-419               6-4-67
10-420               6-4-68
10-421               6-4-69
10-501               6-4-40
10-601               6-4-85
10-602               6-4-86
10-603               6-4-87
10-604               6-4-88
10-605               6-4-89
10-606               6-4-90
10-607               6-4-91
10-608               6-4-92
10-609               6-4-93
10-610               6-4-94
10-611               6-4-95
10-701               6-4-4
11-101               8-4-1
11-102               8-4-2
11-103               8-4-3
12-101               2-1-1
12-102               2-1-2
12-103               2-1-3
12-104               2-1-4
12-105               2-2-1
12-201               10-8-1
12-202               10-8-2
12-203               10-8-3
12-204               10-8-4
12-205               10-8-5
12-206               10-8-6
12-207               10-8-7
13-101               10-5-1
13-102               10-5-2
13-103               10-5-3
13-104               10-5-4
13-105               10-5-5
13-106               10-5-6
13-107               10-5-7
13-201               6-2-1
13-202               6-2-2
13-203               6-2-3
13-204               6-2-4
13-205               6-2-5
13-206               6-2-6
13-207               6-2-7
13-208               6-2-8
13-209               6-2-9
13-210               6-2-10
13-211               6-2-11
13-212               6-2-12
13-213               6-2-13
13-214               6-2-14
13-301               6-1-1
13-302               6-1-2
13-303               6-1-3
13-304               6-1-4
13-305               6-1-5
13-306               6-1-6
13-307               6-1-7
13-401               6-3-1
13-402               6-3-2
13-403               6-3-3
13-404               6-3-4
13-405               6-3-5
13-501               6-1-20
13-502               6-1-21
13-503               6-1-22
13-504               6-1-23
14-101               8-1-1
14-102               8-1-2
14-103               8-1-3
14-104               8-1-4
14-105               8-1-5
14-106               8-1-6
14-107               8-1-7
14-108               8-1-8
14-109               8-1-9
14-110               8-1-10
14-111               8-1-11
14-112               8-1-12
14-201               8-2-1
14-202               8-2-2
14-203               8-2-3
15-104               7-1-1
15-105               7-1-2
15-111               7-1-3
15-112               7-1-4
15-113               7-1-5
15-116               7-1-6
15-117               7-1-7
15-123               7-1-8
15-126               7-1-9
15-127               7-1-10
15-204               5-6-5
15-230               7-3-1
15-231               7-3-2
15-311               7-4-1
15-402               7-5-1
15-403               7-5-2
15-404               7-5-3
15-405               7-5-4
15-406               7-5-5
15-407               7-5-6
15-408               7-5-7
15-409               7-5-8
15-501               7-6-1
15-502               7-6-2
15-504               7-6-3
15-505               7-6-4
15-506               7-6-5
15-507               7-6-6
15-508               7-6-7
15-509               7-6-8
15-510               7-6-9
15-511               7-6-10
15-512               7-6-11
15-513               7-6-12
15-515               7-6-13
15-601               7-1-12
17-101               9-1-1
17-102               9-1-2
17-201               9-2-1
17-202               9-2-2
17-203               9-2-3
17-204               9-2-4
17-205               9-2-5
17-206               9-2-6
17-207               9-2-7
17-208               9-2-8
17-209               9-2-9
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
156            11-7-1983   6-1-8
3-92           3-2-1992    10-1-7
11-95          11-6-1995   8-3-1
1-5-98         1-5-1998    6-5-2
-              9-4-2001    6-5-1, 7-2-1
0103           2-3-2003    1-6-8
081605         8-16-2005   1-10-34
100107         10-1-2007   7-3-3
100107A        10-1-2007   7-1-11
4-10-404A      1-3-2011    6-4-70
1-3-2011-6-1   6-6-2011    5-4-1
12-208         6-4-2012    10-9-1 through 10-9-7
2-104A         8-6-2012    1-6-20
6-104          4-9-2014    1-10-4
6-132-0206217  2-6-2017    1-10-32, 1-10-35
-              1-7-2019    1-10-36
3-12-01072019  1-7-2019    4-2-1 through 4-2-8
5-102-010719   1-7-2019    10-7-1, 10-7-2
060407A        1-7-2019    1-6-35
4-116-2019-3-1 4-1-2019    6-6-15
2019-1         5-3-2019    4-4-1 through 4-4-9
2020-1         10-5-2020   Adopting Ordinance
-              8-1-2022    6-4-39
                          
 
